welcome back your friendly neighborhood
Sport Science doctor here again with
wolf coaching Dr Milo wolf today we're
reacting to someone's advice that I've
actually collaborated with before and
that's the Jeremy Ethier Jeremy Ethier
is a huge proponent of using science to
inform your training and nutrition
practices and so without being biased
today I'm going to try and react to one
of his videos to see whether or not it
actually holds up to the science that he
claims he's using without further Ado
let's get into it if you want to
actually get lean this year the odds are
stacked against you more than 80% of
people who try end up failing but
there's three simple sides back steps
that have helped me and several others
beat the odds and get leaner than ever
before I show you the first step your
diet let's quickly create a realistic
timeline for you he is actually correct
about most people struggling to lose
weight and this is actually why nowadays
for my clients I'm less inclined to have
them gain weight intentionally on on the
bulk when you combine the fact that
bulking doesn't really increase your
muscle growth by that much and I have a
whole video on this here you can check
it out when you combine that fact with
the idea that most people really
struggle to lose weight for a lot of
more general population clients who just
want to gain some muscle and look better
over the long term bulking weight that
they have to lose again in the future
you know not every gram that you gain
during a bulk is going to be muscle and
so you will have to lose fat at some
point going on a specific bulk likely
actually hinders them in the long term
where they're going to struggle to lose
that weight they're going to struggle to
keep that weight off and so sometimes
for their health in the long term
staying up maintenance is a better
approach but yes absolutely agree with
Jeremy here it is very common for
participants in research and just
generally people in real life to
struggle to lose that much weight it's
not just hard losing that weight it's
actually also hard to keep it off but
let's continue take a look at the
following photos pick the one that best
matches your current body now to get to
around 12% body fat with good ab
definition this is roughly how long it
would take or to get a little less lean
around 15% this is how long it would
take now this might be longer than you
expected but most people highly
underestimate just how much fat they
have to lose and how long it takes to do
so for example in these two photos I
lost roughly 20 lbs in about 14 weeks
but I also followed the plan I'm about
to share with you almost perfectly which
just isn't realistic for most people so
expect it to take longer than you think
but as long as you keep trying and
trusting the process I'm about to share
with you you will succeed
your diet is without a doubt what's
going to drive most of your results and
it does this by forcing your body to use
fat for energy but this can only be done
by creating a calorie deficit where
you're eating fewer calories than your
body needs every day now to find the
right calorie deficit for your body you
can use the calculator we've made over
at builtwithscience
docomo link below but to actually hit
this target you need to First fix your
food environment presentable I
personally just would not be able to
walk past cookies at home every day and
not end up eventually eating them so set
yourself up for success by throwing away
your trigger foods and takeing advantage
of your laziness by placing your high
calorie snacks and Treats in hard to-
reach places this also applies to
healthy snacks like nuts and granola I
agree with Jeremy wholeheartedly there's
actually a fair bit of Behavioral
psychology when it comes to dieting that
people should be made more aware of
specifically some of this to my
knowledge is summarized in the book
Atomic Habits by James cliff which I
recommended is actually in the
background somewhere over there it
summarizes some of the behavioral
psychology that goes into promoting
weight loss specifically things like
excluding certain foods that are high in
calories from your kitchen placing foods
that you should be consuming that
promote satiation you know things like
fruit and vegetables and easy to spot
places all of those things designing
your environment in a way that is
conducive to weight loss is going to be
one of the biggest things you can do to
promote your successful diet anything
you can easily overeat should be out of
sight or hard to access also pay
attention to what you're doing when you
eat some research has shown that one of
the strongest predictors of being
overweight was eating meals in front of
the tent so when you do eat try to shut
everything down and just be present but
after fixing your food environment what
food should you actually include in your
diet to my knowledge there is actually
some research around something we call
mindful eating which is essentially
focusing on the experience of eating as
you're eating and also on slowing down
the rate of eating for example using a
smaller spoon or Chopsticks as a means
to slow down the rate of eating and both
of those having positive impacts on
satiation Hunger levels and potentially
on weight loss so again by and large I
agree with him here well let's start
with what seems to be the most powerful
food for fat loss protein by providing
your body with enough protein you're
protecting your muscles from being
burned off for energy during the diet
this forces your body to burn off more
of your fat instead as for how much
protein to eat research typically shows
the greatest benefit when protein is
increased to about 0.8 G per pound of
your body weight per day so if you weigh
180 lb you'd aim to eat around 140 g of
protein per day now here's what 30 g of
protein actually looks like from high
quality sources pick one of these to
have with each of your meals and you
should be able to hit your daily Target
his advice here is spot on once again
this fits right in with the meta
regression that I frequently cite by
Morton and colleagues that shows that
around 1.6 g of protein per kilogram of
body weight per day optimizes fatory
Mass gains when coupled with actually
lifting Additionally the example he gave
off hand of consuming four meals a day
that will likely be sufficient to
optimize muscle protein synthesis and
thus retain as much muscle as possible
so overall yet again a very solid advice
now in addition to protein there's a
handful of other foods that can have a
powerful effect in your fat loss back in
1995 a team of researchers red 38
different foods based on how well they
kept people full after a meal potatoes
oats whole grains lean proteins apples
and oranges all ranked extremely well
whereas higher processed foods like
white rice cereal chips candies and
pastries all ranked poorly so what I'd
suggest is 80% of the time try to eat
more of these highly filling nutritious
Foods eat plenty of vegetables as well
since they'll fill you up for less
calories and then 20% of the time allow
yourself to eat treats and more
processed foods that although won't fill
you up as much will help you avoid an
overly restrictive mindset I think an
8020 rule is a great place to start but
it's worth mentioning that this isn't
some sort of science-based rule or that
everyone should follow exactly 8020 it's
more like a general principle to live by
for example the closer you get to
actually stepping on stage as a
bodybuilder getting really lean into
those low body fat percentages at that
point you won't be living by the ed20
rule in all likelihood anymore you'll
actually be living mostly by the 100 and
zero rule because you have to pull out
all the stops just to stay full and
maintain your diet equally if you're
very overweight you might find that you
can lose weight just fine with the 60/40
approach wherein 60% of your diet is
mostly unprocessed foods and 40% of it
is more processed the important thing
and I'm not sure he's going to touch on
this in the video much or if it's just
sort of keeping things simple is that
it's not just how processed the food is
but it's specifically a few things one
caloric density the more calorie dense
of food is the more calories it has per
given gram of food or per given volume
of food and the less fiber it has has
generally the less satiating and the
less it's going to impact your hunger in
a positive way so generally during
dieting not only do you want to pick
mostly unprocessed foods but you
specifically want to pick foods that
have low calorie density so they have
few calories for every bite and they
have a lot of fiber as both of those
things will promote satiation and reduce
hunger ultimately for many diets hunger
is a big issue so if you can follow
these things you'll set yourself up for
success and if you're wondering what
this looks like is a full day of eating
it could be something like protein
pancakes for breakfast salmon and
potatoes for lunch chicken and veggies
for dinner and greef yogurt with fruit
for dessert all of this comes up to just
2100 calories and at the end of the
video I'll leave a link to this exact
meal P so incorporating what we've
talked about so far should increase the
odds that you're eating in a caliber
deficit but many people still end up
eating too many calories despite
following a healthy diet so as a final
note for your diet I'd highly recommend
and actually tracking your calories and
seeing if you're on target even if it's
just for a week it'll help you at least
be aware of whether you need to adjust
anything I fully agree with this and
there is actually some research
suggesting that people who log and
monitor their food consumption more
consistently and for example their
weighin as well their body weight
day-to-day as measured by a scale they
generally see greater dietary success in
whatever their goal is likewise most
people say they can't lose weight on a
given calorie intake that seems is very
low like 1,200 calories or what have you
generally just aren't tracking
everything that they're consuming and
they're underestimating how many
calories they're consuming so when you
are tracking your calories try and be as
precise as
possible so we've got your diet covered
but what are the best exercises to help
you get leaner well luckily for us a
recent meta analysis ranked several
different fat loss protocols from most
to least effective a calorie deficit
plus lifting weights was the most
effective method now the reason lifting
weights is great for fat loss is similar
to why eating more protein helps with
fat loss lifting weights tells your body
to keep your muscle and burn fat for
energy instead so use your diet to do
the hard work of creating most of your
calorie deficit but lift weights 3 to
five times per week to make sure you're
losing fat not muscle I agree with him
here and I'm happy he didn't go the
route of well when you lift weights you
actually grow muscle and you turn into
some sort of metabolic furnace because
in reality that isn't actually what
happens in fact gaining a kilogram of
muscle can often only result in an
additional like 20 calories burned per
day if that so it's not as though
lifting will make you this energy
burning machine right where all of a
sudden your maintenance calories jump up
by a ton however lifting weights is by
far the biggest factor in maintaining
your muscle you can need as much protein
as you want if you're not lifting
weights consistently and you're losing a
bunch of weight a lot of that will be
muscle loss but this doesn't mean you
hit the gym and then sloth around the
rest of the day one of the reasons why
people fail to get lean dur in a diet is
because they subconsciously get lean
easier and reduce the number of steps
they take as they get leaner and leaner
to avoid this start tracking your daily
steps try to build up to at least 7,000
steps per day and keep that consistent
throughout your diet he's completely on
pointed and I think he's a few things he
didn't mention one when you're dieting
and you're no longer seeing weight loss
there's a couple of levers I would
typically pull on one is just eating
less food consuming fewer calories that
is one way of increasing your calorie
deficit and burning more fat two however
ever is to Simply increase the number of
steps there are diminishing returns
however there's something called the
additive model of energy expenditure and
something called the constrained model
of energy expenditure in the additive
model every thousand step increase for
example leads to a consistent linear
increase in how much energy is burnt in
the constrained energy model however you
see that as you add more and more steps
you get diminishing returns on how many
additional calories you're burning and
so if you go from say 0 to 8,000 steps
that might lead to to 300 calories burnt
but if you go from 8 to 16,000 steps
that might only lead 200 calories burnt
so you get diminishing returns on
activity and so if your weight loss
comes to a halt generally I would opt to
decrease the amount of calories you're
consuming unless your number of steps is
relatively low the highest I'll
typically have someone go in terms of
number of steps is up to 15,000 steps
per day this can be individualized a
little bit however for example if you're
someone who gets really hungry but in
terms of energy you're fine during a
weight loss phase you you may find that
increasing your steps is a good approach
because you can still eat just as much
food but you end up in a bigger deficit
and your energy isn't really an issue in
the first place and vice versa if you're
someone who's not really ever hungry
during weight loss phase but your energy
goes way down and you don't have the
time to do those additional steps then
you might find that reducing the amount
of calories you consume day-to-day is a
better approach finally the reason I
like to have these two levers as opposed
to having a bunch of cardio sessions
within your program to promote energy
expenditure and get you into a bigger
def EX for weight loss is because doing
steps going on walks is really not that
fatiguing on the hole so it actually
combines very well with lifting in the
gym it's not going to TI out a bunch
before you
lift apply everything we went through so
far and you should be able to lose about
1 to 2 lbs of fat per week repeat that
for several weeks and eventually you'll
be at your gold body fat percentage but
we all know that's much easier said than
done eating healthy tracking your
calories doing your workouts and getting
enough steps every single day can get
overwhelming but there's three
consistency hacks that I found make
people far more likely to stick it
through and succeed the first is what I
like to call the power of 60% one study
compared those who track their calories
at least 60% of the time those who track
less than 30% of the time and those who
track inconsistently so maybe 100% on
some weeks but less than 30% on other
weeks can you guess which group lost the
most fat yep the 60% group so so instead
of aiming for Perfection just aim to hit
your goals at least 60% of the time and
if you look at this on a weekly basis
that's just four or 5 days at of the
week only once that becomes easy should
you then aim for more now as for the
second consistency hack let's say you
were going on a road trip across a
country what would happen if you tried
to do the drive all in one go while you
might start off strong eventually you'd
burn out and run out of gas the same is
true with Dien as much as we want to get
to the end destination as quickly as
possible we need to take breaks every
now and then to recharge in the Fitness
World this is what's known as diet
breaks it's a week or two where you
increase your calorie intake to around
500 calories more than when you were
diting while it's not a free pass to eat
whatever you want it will give you more
flexibility with your food choices and
can help you recharge both mentally and
physically before your next dieted phase
as for how often to do them typically
after every 8 to 12 weeks a consistent
dieting is when I highly recommend and
considering one I completely agree with
Jeremy here on the value of diet breaks
or refeeds in fact there was a recent
met analysis on the topic that I'll post
up on the screen now showing that
generally diet breaks refeeds and the
like are beneficial when it comes to
managing hunger and promoting weight
loss during a diet now the last
consistency tip I have has to do with
your belly fat most people if after 6
weeks of dieting they see no change in
their belly they assume it's not working
and they quit but your body Saves The
Best For Last usually your body will
start start by losing fat around your
chest shoulders arms back and even your
face only once it's lost enough fat from
those areas will start to make its way
down to your upper stomach area and then
finally your lower belly fat
unfortunately there's no way to
specifically Target these areas the real
secret is just sticking it out for
longer here's an example from one of our
built with science members Jesse who
stuck to his plan for a year notice how
there's not much difference in his belly
in the first 3 months month 8 however is
when you can really start to see some
big changes in his belly now this wasn't
from him changing anything it was from
him simply trusting the process and
sticking to the plan used another
example from Archie who ran our program
for 10 months his face chest and
shoulders were all the first areas to
improve but just imagine if he quit
after month four because he wasn't
seeing much progress in his belly fat
here's another one from Tamara after
just 8 months of Simply sticking to the
plan remember you have a lot more fat to
lose than you think so until you get
lean enough to no notice your belly fat
coming off be proud of the fat loss
progress you've made in your face arms
chest and shoulders just don't quit
right before the going gets good so I
actually slightly disagree with Jeremy
Hill on this last point to my knowledge
while there are differences in body fat
distribution for example between males
and females there's not much evidence on
how fat is lost during a diet say from
20% to 10% body fat and I think there's
going to be substantial individual
differences right personally for example
when I diet my abs get lean relatively
quickly and I have decent ABS but other
areas don't and I think there's some
degree of individual variation here and
I would be hardpressed to say I've seen
much evidence suggesting that this
pattern is consistent amongst both men
and women for example anyways that is
the whole video reviewed honestly this
was pretty good like for an 8 minute
video ultimately aimed at more of a
general population that wanted to lose
weight or what have you this is really
solid I would give it like a 9 out of 10
in terms of information being delivered
I sure there were certain things where
more Nuance could have been given or
what have you but equally this is an e
video G towards general population so I
don't really have any major qualms with
it it's really solid so Jeremy is here
you get a thumbs up that's been the
video If you enjoyed the video please
consider commenting liking subscribing
if there's anyone else you want me to
react to please leave a comment down
below and I get them but anyways I will
see you guys my subscribers next time
have a good day peace