fat loss is the biggest path to massive
visual changes quickly you can't gain
muscle very fast for that reason if you
let's say have five weeks and then you
have to be um oh you know at a photo
shoot with your fiance let's say you
somehow accidentally said the right
thing to a girl a few times and then
you're gonna get married the fiance is
like hey like you know he gave me the
spring and it was on the beach this is
great can we get some photos taken of
the two of us just like fiance pictures
people do weird like that that's
white people out there fine okay
five weeks which are like not amazing
shape how much fat can you lose in five
weeks which he was maybe like 10 pounds
you're not gonna gain 10 pounds of
muscle and the visual effect is wildly
wildly