[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization today we're gonna make a
fish dish
this one is near and dear to my heart
this is nut crusted tilapia this was on
the cover of my first book the
Renaissance kitchen the first 100
recipes alright so I've got some
beautiful tilapia fillets here I'm gonna
go ahead and make the mixture to coat
these so this is some toasted chopped
walnuts toasting is not 100% required
but it just makes a world of difference
if you taste a roll walnuts and then you
taste a toasted one really with any nut
you can just say it tastes a huge
difference the heat of the pan if you
put it in your oven or if you put it on
the stovetop and just let it kind of
play around in a skillet over medium
heat or something like that you'll just
notice a big difference the heat
releases the oils and the nuts and just
brings out so much more flavor so really
take the time to do that some whole
peppercorns some cumin some salt and
then just a little bit of extra virgin
olive oil add that in there just a
little bit on the processor so it gets
to sort of like a crumb like mixture
do you want to like kind of squeeze it
oh yeah it's nice and like moist when
you're gonna use this to Pat it on to
the fish you can see that this because
of the olive oil it like packs packs
together really well we've got a cast
iron skillet here and I go ahead and
turn the heat up to medium-high you're
gonna get a good sear on this I'm gonna
go ahead and put these in nice and hot
I'm just gonna leave it alone I gotta
touch it so I'm just going to let let it
sear on the side that it's on then we're
gonna stick it in the oven for 5 minutes
to let it finish cooking in there let's
get this fish out see how it looks here
we go it is beautiful
crusty fish put some salt on there a
little bit of fresh herbs it's gonna
taste so good with that crust
[Music]