I'm trying to get laid I got one shot at
the title I want one line to tell these
hoes Sam what what are we saying to
these
ladies Dr Mike Israel what's that
professional voices professional voice
Dr Mike isrel here today for RP news and
I'm here with my assistant news boy is
that politically correct to say uh
17-year-old High School Superstar
athlete Jared Fe and we are at a very
special location a very special time we
are at
the Greater Columbus Convention Center
to witness the Arnold sports expo we're
going to ask why people are hear what
they like about it and what they maybe
don't like about it let's go find out
what it means to be fit in America in
2024 oh that was
good thank you guys for being responsive
to fans everything you guys have yeah I
I hate the fans you want me to sign this
yeah please watch this
nerd
I know stereotypes are old and wrong but
what does the average pedophile look
like please state your name to the
camera Talon southeren was that planned
or are your parents like mine and
they're just kind of High when they
named you uh one of these people is Sam
suar the other one is not vote in the
comments right now who's who I don't
know it's him I don't know I don't know
if I'm allowed to say this one oh you
sure are H baby I got in a job buy a a
bill allow to keep that my parents don't
know about will they're going to know
now you remember this you signed my
friend's chest oh I absolutely remember
actually Jared that's not me I know
white people look to same it's cool
you're racist whatever I don't hate
theica what is the reason behind it was
a
mohawk that was only spiked for
bodybuilding shows when I was natural
and then it kind of just I stopped
spiking it and now it's a fled Mohawk I
don't hate it I like the fact that it's
like you know unique you don't have to
lie to him suck straight up I hate it
you know what I'm saying
like what did you ask the barber for you
go by the Instagram moniker goob you
expose people for uh photoshopping their
pictures to try to look uh woman lier or
manlier than they really are in real
life pretty much trying to be a little
more Jack yes okay what is the best way
for me to like Photoshop my so that
you don't notice great question if
you're out there two layers they're lazy
they're lazy that's it take 5 minutes
toat me yeah a proper VFX artist could
do it in 30 seconds literally I mean all
the really good photographers they're
editing the and I can't catch them
sure unless they have the ra so you're
really just testing for stupidity and
and carelessness it's a stupidity test
and they all fail get rid of the phone
app install Photoshop take it to the
desktop layer it up beat me just beat do
it right you said you were going to my
you asked me if I was a picture to
catcher last year we have a lot of
viewers that have been together a while
with their wives people like me he's
making that up but it's it's nice to say
what are you doing to spice up the
bedroom yeah I used to be brown and cute
in another life too I could just come in
and cut in line like that in the real
world we wait in line ladies you you
just did multiple pull-ups yes that's 51
years old yes what steroids are are you
taking the okay I also lie about it one
shot at the title I want one lie to tell
these hoes F what do I say pretty girl
what do I say I'm Mike isrel you're the
most popular app in the world yeah easy
you're like I'm the most popular app in
the world excuse me I'm an app
what what are we saying to these ladies
honestly I think you could get a couple
of them coming your way if you just say
you could get them a picture with me
with you I be like I get you in a Sam
Sonic photo like who's that like I met
Sam awesome I'm going to do that next
I'll be back with ladies top two or
three tips how to get that you kind
you got to remain eye contact like hi my
name's Mich I love you yeah yeah yeah
you're asking her what she does in the
weekends right okay finding out what
she's about yeah okay and then stalking
her yeah brilliant how straight would
you call yourself 100% is like Clint
Eastwood I have been uh in Jared's DMS
talking to myself basically asking me if
I want to be in his jeans okay so that's
under
45 all right well we're trying to get
the out of here Scot to video guys going
to trip on the escalator if you're not
careful guys follow like subscribe and
uh hopefully it's was funny see you next
time