good morning everyone it is Wednesday
June the 6th and we're just out here in
Toronto so there's our last full day
here basically we're just running to
grab some coffee right now this morning
I pretty much spent most of my time
writing my new fundamentals book so I
don't actually think I've officially
talked about that on the channel I've
been posting about it on my other social
media but basically I'm going to compile
all the information that I've laid out
so far in the fundamental series which
is still on the way I'm gonna release
episode 2 right after this and put it
into a full-blown book and I asked you
guys on my Instagram whether you'd
rather have an electronic version or a
hardcopy printed version I think like
the far majority of people said they
wanted a printed version so now I'm
looking into actually making that happen
but as for today
rashon and i just out chillin going to
get some coffee and then we're gonna
head here grab some groceries so I'll
check in with you guys show you what we
get
[Music]
it is cold in Toronto coming here is
June 6 and it's like 15 degrees Celsius
or something it's crazy having come from
Florida to see how cold it is here
I do wish we went to Tim's oh it's just
farther away that's the only reason but
I prefer Tim Hortons coffee over
ceremony that um Tim Hortons coffee this
is the egg white spinach traveler you
Starbucks usually what I get it's like
really high sodium 20 grams of protein
or something like that so fare at least
we can buy 20 grams but it tastes pretty
good too
yeah alright so guys we got to get got
us some groceries things are pretty
scarce that they are being B right now
especially without Steph here I feel
like Steph's always the one who knows
exactly what again start with some
produce produce I always say like that I
did my myth-busting you on fresh versus
frozen veggies I can't tell you how many
times I said produce since their produce
for whatever reason like from
Newfoundland where I'm from that's how
we say it
Nestle is back bro this is amazing
they're like nice rightness and so
grapples actually I'm only here for I'm
only here for like one more day right
yeah yeah I mean I don't need that thing
Jeremy's got some like salad mix back at
the place that is one thing you do if
you guys saw my last video you'll know
that I am intuitively eating but when
I'm intuitively eating I really focus on
the food choices so you'll notice it's
like a lot of like full kind of high
volume foods very like quite highly
nutritious foods and that's basically
what I try to do I'll make usually like
two meals a day while I'm traveling here
anyway and then the other two I'll
probably have out like something quick
on the go like a snack type meal and
then I'll usually have one or two
protein shakes just to make sure I'm
hitting my daily protein target that's
how it usually works out in practice you
got two more days so I've got to get
like two days two days worth of meals
what I always forget when stuff isn't
here is like the random stuff like I'll
forget Splenda ketchup I will get back
there and be like oil for the pan that's
actually one thing that need the help we
do need that right we don't have a
thank you very much provide all right
guys here is the hall just a few things
to like tide me over for the next couple
days I've got a bit of sandwich meat
here I've already got some some bread
over there and in the fridge from Red
Bull we may have to grind tonight I'm
definitely trying to like really grind
out this fundamentals book and make some
good headway on that and then you still
already saw all this stuff to get some
got some Kiwis some apples and spray
else we got here it's a milk for the
coffee and that's it so that'll be it
for today and then after we put this
away I'm actually going for a workout
with o'mariay stuff so this is a guy
I've been following probably as long as
I've been shown Fitness YouTube and we
just met the other day we said you know
we have to get a workout in so I think
Omar said he wants to do calves and neck
so we're gonna go for a calf and network
out with Omar just kidding we're going
for bench in arms and check them with
you guys when I get my pre-workout meal
ready for the tournament no dammit all
right guys we got the pre-workout meal
here something pretty simple and quick
because Omar's running a tight ship over
there so it's 1:30 training that to what
we've got so I have sandwich with some
oven-roasted turkey me a slice of marble
cheese this is ancient grains bread so
it has some like flax seeds and quinoa
in there this is my favorite bread this
is just that kale mixed I always eat and
some blackberries blackberries are
probably my favorite very I'm pretty
sure per calorie they have the highest
fiber content it's almost like 50% of
the carb content is fiber and I'm pretty
sure blackberries have some sort of
unique digestive benefit but anyway and
then also an apple I'm probably eat this
on the way there also slam some
pre-workout and then
to check in with you guys over at Fortis
gym like a hardcore gym been here once
before like two years ago it's a special
place
forty trainer yeah I thought we were
doing more hat yeah Nick I want I want
you to apply the phone
I like armed days I'll usually do a
poster thank me anyway no I'll probably
just do wide-grip outside because I'm
due for a white dress so I'm gonna get
tuned
at a light breakfast gonna use the field
of motivation for China and decent
workouts are gonna be great so I get a
hundred sites right now it's gonna be
funny I think it's gonna be good cuz I
just straight up Jeff no joke like I
started training my arms again my biceps
after not training for two years but
have been abuela thing but like I still
get pro where my biceps will cramp after
like five steps no joke so be one so be
good yeah we're gonna go through this
workout and I'm gonna voiceover what it
is we kind of did after the fact so it
can be a little bit more informative I'm
talking with you guys when we leave the
gym alright so guys we just got back
from that workout with Omar that's
actually one of the better lifting
sessions I've had in a while really cool
to get to connect with Omar and he's a
channel like I said that I've been
falling for ever he puts out tons of
really high quality science-based
content as well and he's just an OG here
on YouTube so if you aren't subscribed
to him I will have his channel linked
down below as well and also I would
recommend going and checking out the
video that we did over there because I
do go into a lot of detail with the
workout that I'm gonna gloss over for
the most part here and just kind of take
you guys through but in terms of like
some of the explanations behind it
definitely go check out that video so
I'll have that one I'm a link down there
as well but in terms of the actual
workout we kick things off with the
bench press and this is something I'll
often do actually on arm days so we did
do a dedicated arm day but we kicked it
off with bench press because I will do a
close grip bench press that's kind of
like my main heavy compound movement for
the triceps for that day but also it's
just convenient for me to put one of my
bench days on an arm day so that kind of
made sense and kind of worked in with my
I split the way I'm doing it if we were
just doing three sets of five reps and
we kind of pyramid it up somewhere in
the rpe
eight zone so I think we started with
275 for a first set and then did 285 for
the second and then worked up to like
kind of a top-heavy set of 295 and that
moved really smooth I would say I could
have easily gotten you know seven or
eight reps but with the bench press
again you didn't you don't want to be
taking those sets to failure or anything
like that and then after that we did EZ
bar curl I like to put biceps first
before the triceps work just because I
do see it as kind of a weak point on my
physique that's a recurring bit of
feedback I've gotten from judges
historically my competition experience
and so here again similar kind of to the
bench press you want to think of this as
sort of your mean heavy movement for the
biceps so here we did three sets of six
to eight reps occasionally I will go
down in the like four to six reps own
but I find that when the weight is that
heavy you're almost forced to cheat or
you're almost really encouraged to cheat
and kind of use momentum to get to wait
up so I do try to use really strict
control here and kind of make sure that
the eccentric is being controlled so
it's not just I'm just letting the force
of gravity kind of take it on the way
down and then again the main function
here is to kind of maximize tension on
the biceps from that outset and then
week to week you really want to focus on
overloading this movement so this is
your main movement for the biceps and
every week you kind of want to make sure
you're either doing an extra rep or
adding a little bit of weight to the bar
on this one after this we did something
a little bit different in my arm
hypertrophy program I call this the
death curl method so basically what you
do is you pause so you're on an incline
curl so the bicep is in more of a
stretch position might target the kind
of outer long head a little bit more but
the main thing that we're focusing on
here is a one-second pause on the way up
and you kind of squeeze at the top and
then you do a one-second pause also on
the way down
and we'll do that for say like 15 reps
or somewhere really close to failure so
we're saying like in our PE of nine you
might have one rep left in the tank and
then after that you're gonna come
halfway up at ninety degrees and so
immediately after you get really close
to failure come up to the ninety degree
point and do it for a fifteen second ice
hole hole and there's nothing
particularly like special or magical
about this method it's just something
that I find adds variety to your
training a little bit of a new training
stimulus and also you get a crazy pump
from it a lot of metabolic fatigue so
obviously you'd want to be doing this
after that EZ bar curl but it does
definitely help keep the training
interesting and kind of helps stress
your arms in sort of a new way so if you
haven't never tried that out I recommend
giving that a shot and then we just
finished off with the Bayesian cable
curl this is something you guys have
seen me do a bunch so I won't go into
any detail with that but we did three
sets of 20 reps on those and then it was
on two triceps so like I said I do
prioritize biceps first so I hid all the
biceps work out the gate except for
bench since powerlifting is kind of like
my main goal right now and then I would
say as far as this session is concerned
biceps would be kind of my secondary
focus and then finally we're gonna
finish with the triceps work and so we
keep this off with just a straight virus
tricep press down I prefer the bar over
the rope in most cases just because
you're able to overload the triceps so
much more heavily with the bar so we did
three sets of six to eight reps here so
similar to the EZ bar curl really
focusing on those progressive increases
with regards attention and loading these
quite heavily again still under quality
control especially on the eccentric and
then we rounded out the workout with an
overhead extension so I think with the
triceps you do want to make sure you're
including at least one movement where
your elbows are down or by your sides so
your shoulders and more of an extended
position
and then another movement where the
shoulder is more flexed up overhead and
so for our second movement we did the
overhead one arm
tricep extension and I do find that this
kind of allows you to focus on each arm
individually and kind of prevent any
asymmetries from developing and that's
something I've been doing a little bit
more lately I've kind of noticed that I
do tend to have one side that kind of
outperforms the other in terms of
strength so doing these unilateral
movements is really the best way to
overcome that or prevent that and I
think that that was it after the workout
Omer and I recorded the video for his
channel like I said so you can go and
check that out
one thing I do talk about there is why
I've kind of gone back to having an arm
day in my program so many of you guys
will know I'm running an upper lower
split right now and then what I'll do is
kind of have this roaming arm day and
these m'q roaming rest days where I'll
take a rest day when I feel like I
really need it and then I'll throw the
arm day I'm kind of one of those rest
days because I do find it to be pretty
easy to recover from the recovery cost
of an arm day is pretty close in my
experience to that of a rest day is a
pretty small muscle group here so and
then with the benchpress what I did this
week was I took the bench work that I'd
normally do on one of my upper body days
and just put it on this arm day just to
kind of accommodate on my schedule a
little bit so what I think I'm gonna do
now is just do the rest of my upper-body
workout tomorrow so just shuffle things
around a little bit with the back work
and some of the shoulder work the rest
of it'll be the same and according to
schedule so that's pretty much it I'm
gonna actually pick up the camera as of
right now where Shawn and I are gonna go
hit up the Eaton Center right yeah we're
gonna go do some shopping I'm really
hungry - are you hungry grab a bite to
eat and then I'm gonna go shopping for
some new shoes I think is the main thing
I want to get but yeah we'll see
apparently the just to show you guys our
shoe collection over here so I've got on
the Rick Owens adidas collab right now
but we've also
these nmds either ASEAN's actually these
are my puma shoes I usually lift in
these those are ASEAN's Yeezys got the
ultra boost got the vinkor max Nikes
over here you've got these nmds
and then those are Kuma's over there
that I've got and then yeah so he cut
like you'd think there was like at least
four or five people here that's just
manner Shawn so yeah we're gonna head
over to the Eaton Center now and maybe
I'll give you guys a little glimpse of
what I get travelling through Toronto
like the city is just so so aesthetic
here so hopefully there's some good good
stores here at this mall I haven't been
here in a couple years but yes check it
out
Oh
of course I will yeah you say hi hi
Stephanie
thank you so we're gonna get some food
at Balise pizza I think I actually ate
here when I was in Nam it's not Houston
it's by shootin
okay now that I got this on my shirt is
exactly what I got Sugarland and I don't
think I really liked it
that's actually good honestly but I
didn't like last time because that weird
gorgonzola cheese or whatever it was
that's actually super good I also got
I'm gonna have a little bit of this I
will not finish that not my club and I
had to try it so
something like sea salt on there looks
like some fresh chocolate right here oh
man this is gonna be amazing
I might have to go although that is so
ready so after my last video I talked
about my new diet approach so intuitive
eating your auto regulated using
basically I get a lot of people asking
me like how I kind of do that in
practice so here's an example right now
I feel probably about like 70% whole
like I'm not I'm not full and normally I
would just do a little thing but I know
that I've had enough for one meal like
I've gotten enough protein in here and I
don't need to eat anymore so I just stop
at this point
damn I shoulda cookie was what I ate how
much of the pizza so probably about
three-quarters of the pizza and then
maybe like a third of the cookie so
that's it and I won't track those macros
or even think about it just a matter of
like once I reach that point of fullness
that's when I'll stop and also being
super active helps today I'm at thirteen
thousand six hundred steps and we
haven't even started shopping yet so
like I'll easily hit
sixteen seventeen thousand steps today
which is like really active so that
gives you an extra bit of a buffer as
well you can and I got to get some new
power love teaching power lift three one
thing you want to in front of power
power power lifting shoe is a solid heel
these are so much better than the
original power lips that I have I like
that all black - that looks like this I
think I'm gonna get these four these are
probably a little more solid but I don't
know if I like to look at them although
I do have all the army green stuff what
do you think are the blockers well I do
like those too the price difference one
42:20 for sure
it feels so much more solid than the
originals that I have it's actually
pretty snug too so I mean they're only
like or are they like yeah I'm pretty
sure gonna get these yeah so this is my
style over here bro
give me two five seven this is crazy
seven hundred and ten bucks I like this
too
that's how much there and if you guess
it right you get them all right uh I
would say four hundred four hundred you
know they're actually on sale for $89
I'm definitely I feel like I could have
just won a real fortune you got this
weird hoodie on is like bro when are you
gonna wear that in the summertime at
night it's like you'll be too cold I
would honestly wear this to the gym and
then take it off like once I have a pump
yeah first layer yeah this is the first
layer I got those powerless shoes and
then I got another t-shirt and some
socks from Zara and that was it wasn't
anything that like really caught my eye
I did get a pair of Iraqis I didn't get
those an idea
other than that not too much we're just
waiting to meet up with mark now I'm
gonna go ahead and end the vlog right
here thank you guys so much for watching
don't forget to go check out my video on
Omar's channel and check out some more
of his content he has awesome stuff over
there I don't forget to like the video
if you enjoyed it subscribe to the
channel if you're new and I'll see you
guys in the next one