oh good God oh God it says isometric
pull-up oh God God damn it here it comes
to make sure Patrick has stability in
three different positions guess how many
positions of stability may be required
in the sport of American football
technically infinite overcoming
isometric trap bar deadlift it's not
about weight it's about constant tension
and how would you generate a lot of
tension it couldn't be with more weight
could
it Christ you're training Dynamic
athletes you have to use a high range of
motion and produce High forces with
maximum intent to move isometrics are
the very fcking opposite of that
football is not played isometrically I
know that sounds crazy better to be
overprepared with real hard core solid
difficult training than nuanced pseudo
explanations of nuanced also pseudo
nonsense that this is ah