in this video I'm going to be outlining
five supplements that remain extremely
popular despite a severe lack of
scientific evidence for muscle growth or
fat loss let's kick things off with
testosterone boosters this 2020 study
did something really unique they took
the five most popular test boosters on
amazon.com and analyzed the individual
ingredients for Effectiveness these are
the actual five products they
investigated now up front is worth
mentioning that three of the five test
boosters didn't even report how much of
each ingredient was in the pills they
just gave a proprietary list this is an
immediate red flag because these
products didn't even try to claim
effective dosing they could have added
just a dusting to the bottle and it'd
still meet the label claim but even if
most of these supplements did have
honest label claims most of their
ingredients still aren't supported by
scientific evidence as you'd expect the
ingredients list includes The Usual
Suspects horny goat weed Boron
ashwagandha fenugreek Etc and of these
fully half had zero human studies
showing a positive effect nothing three
ingredients had one or two studies
showing a positive effect but more
research showing no effect for example
saw palmetto and Boron both have two
positive studies but then have six
studies showing no effect at all
fenugreek had four studies showing a
positive effect but also had three
studies with indeterminate findings so
although fenugreek might be one to keep
an eye on for future studies the examine
research database currently states that
quote although there is limited evidence
to support an increase in testosterone
more evidence than not deny such an
increase the ingredient that looked most
promising to me was ashwagandha and even
though this paper cited just one study
showing a positive effect I am aware of
a few more that also showed an increase
and I personally take 600 milligrams of
ashwagandha per day that's more because
of its impact on cortisol stress and
other possible health benefits but if it
turns out to also boost testosterone
I'll take that as a bonus of course
there's a bit of an issue with just
doing a simple tally of the number of
studies for and against a certain
supplement as some studies are higher
quality than others but I think this is
still good enough for giving you a
general lay of the land regardless when
you do dig into the individual studies
you'll see that even the best compounds
and the best studies are still pretty
underwhelming it's important to realize
that when people inject testosterone
their test levels increase by massive
amounts the study showed that when
subjects injected 600 milligrams of
testosterone and antide an anabolic
steroid their test levels went from 6 30
all the way up to
2370 nanograms per deciliter a
1740 increase by comparison the natural
test booster I'm most optimistic about
ashwagandha only increased testosterone
by 96 nanograms per deciliter so pretty
underwhelming by comparison to actual
steroids but still could be worth
considering especially if you have low
testosterone and want to avoid the side
effects associated with steroid use but
even with that said there are still
other better methods for boosting
testosterone than dietary supplements
these include getting seven to eight
hours of sleep a night maintaining a
healthy body weight ensuring that
there's enough overall fat in your diet
and increasing micronutrients that you
could be deficient in for example you
might not be getting enough zinc
magnesium or vitamin D so these are the
things I'd focus on and to borrow a line
from a recent issue of the mass research
review if you have fairly normal or even
high testosterone levels none of the
supplements currently marketed as
testosterone boosters are likely to
yield meaningful benefits of course
despite this in the Amazon study average
reviews for the test boosters were still
very positive the top five supplements
had an average rating of 4.5 out of 5
Stars this proves that just because a
product has positive reviews doesn't
mean it actually works what we're most
likely seeing here is the power of
placebo when people spend money on a new
supplement they almost always do other
things like start trading harder or
eating a better diet which is great but
then they falsely attribute any results
they get to the new pills this is
something we'll see at play once again
in the second supplement on my list so
number two on my list to avoid is
trachestrone now six months ago I did a
video breaking down what trichesterone
is and why it isn't deserving of the
marketing hype it's gotten over the last
year or two in fact at the time of
pushing that video there was Zero human
evidence on trachestrone and there's
still zero human evidence on
trigesterone today but a lot else has
happened in the tercasteron world since
publishing that video so I figured I'd
quickly get everyone up to speed now if
you remember while there wasn't any
human data on trichesterone specifically
there is some research on related ecti
steroids the most promising of which was
this 2019 study from eisenmen and
colleagues which did in fact show that
subjects taking a peak ectus own
supplement saw significantly greater
muscle gains than a group taking Placebo
but there was a catch when they lab
tested the peak ectus on pills they
found that they only contained six
percent of what was claimed on the label
instead of a hundred milligrams of ecd
sterone it had six milligrams of
ectistaron this strongly implied that
there's some serious quality control
issues with these supplements but it
gets worse because last month a company
called nootropics Depot ran some
independent lab tests on the most
popular trichesterone supplements on the
market they found that while Greg
doucette's truck Builder claimed to
contain 5 100 milligrams of
trichesterone per capsule it only
actually contained 0.7 milligrams per
capsule just 0.15 percent of what was
advertised on the label was actually in
the bottle the gorilla mine terrestrial
pills also had less than one percent of
the label claim and some other
turcasteron products had no detectable
trichesterone at all now a few people
have been quick to write off these lab
results since nootropics Depot also
sells supplements so they could have a
vested interest in making these other
products look bad however there's been a
lot of back and forth between these
parties and it's all available online
and as someone who personally has a
degree in Biochemistry I do find the
chemistry from the nootropics lab
convincing granted I'm not exactly a
trickesterone fan so I could have some
bias as well but you can go through it
all for yourself and I'll link all the
lab tests and the relevant replies down
below and to be fair I know there are
still some question marks in terms of
exactly how to detect and tease apart
these different active steroids as many
of them are chemically similar it's kind
of like iffy stratifying for this acne
steroid because there so many similar
molecules and stuff that it seems like
there's a lot of chemistry debate as to
even figuring out if it's there if it's
cross-detecting as something else what
is going on as I see it this whole
situation should be a huge red flag
because not only do these products have
a sketchy science base to begin with
they also have serious quality control
issues and this is why I think it's so
important to be a so-called late adopter
in an industry that's this poorly
regulated in the words of Dr Eric Helms
even the most effective supplements like
creatine and caffeine still make a very
small impact so don't get caught up by
the hype surrounding a new supplement
you won't miss out if you simply wait a
year or two until additional studies are
published now I'm going off script just
a little bit here but I did want to say
that I do understand the impulse to want
to try the new flashy thing when I was
new to lifting I'd see an ad and some
bodybuilding magazine and immediately
want to try that product and oftentimes
I would actually buy that product and I
try it and get results but over the
years I learned that it was actually me
who was getting those results it was my
hard work in the gym and my dedication
to the diet that was building muscle not
some flashy pill okay so number three on
my list is BCAAs now just so everyone's
on the same page BCAA stands for
branched chain amino acid amino acids of
course make up the protein and the foods
that we eat and there are 20 amino acids
that make a complete protein nine of
those 20 are essential meaning you need
to get them in your diet because your
body can't make them on its own and
three of those have this branched chain
chemical structure and those are the
BCAAs leucine isoleucine and valine
leucine is the crucial amino acid for
triggering muscle protein synthesis and
you can think of it like the key to
starting your car the other two
isoleucine and valine don't trigger
muscle protein synthesis but they're
still often included because if you take
leucine on its own it decreases the
concentration of isoleucine and valine
in the blood which is bad because you
need isoleucine and valine to build new
muscle tissue of course none of this
really matters because not only do you
need isoleucine and Valium to build
muscle you need all nine essential amino
acids so taking leucine without all the
other essential amino acids would be
like turning the key to your car without
any gas in it so while BCAAs are
extremely important in fact required to
build muscle they're still more or less
useless if you're consuming them in the
absence of the other essential amino
acids and research repeatedly shows this
the latest systematic review from
January of this year which analyzed 12
studies found no benefit of BCAA
supplementation on performance strength
or muscle mass so instead of amino acid
supplements I simply focus on getting
enough total protein now there may be a
few exceptions where I'd consider
supplementing eaas such as if you're
eating a vegetarian meal that's low in
protein quality and you'd like to boost
its amino acid profile but in that case
you could just have a vegan protein
shake instead or if you're very lean and
near the end of a diet and you'd like to
have some extra so-called anabolic
Insurance during your workout sipping on
some EAS might not hurt especially if
you train fasted but overall BCAAs
aren't a product I'd recommend and focus
on simply eating enough protein instead
and I'll link my video detailing exactly
how much protein you need for muscle
growth down below number four on my list
is fat burners and while fat burners
have gotten somewhat of a bad rap in the
online fitness space these days they're
still extremely popular in the broader
public so generally speaking fat burners
claim to work through one of two
Pathways they either lower appetite
meaning you might eat less so less
calories in or they increase energy
expenditure through a so-called
thermogenic effect so more calories out
now on paper both of these mechanisms
should work it's just that in reality
not much seems to happen if you look at
the most recent meta-analysis on fat
burners and thermogenic supplements we
can see that overall there was no
indication that the inclusion of fat
burners and thermogenic dietary
supplements was any more effective than
exercise or a combination of diet and
exercise while it is true that caffeine
and green tea extract can have some
benefit in terms of energy expenditure
it's so small in comparison to diet and
exercise that we have to question the
Practical relevance but I think caffeine
is a good supplement to take before
training anyway not because it's such a
great fat burner but because it reliably
boosts training performance and if you
get a few extra calories burned from
taking it then great but when caffeine
is repackaged with other ineffective or
unsubstantiated herbs and compounds and
then Market it as some kind of special
fat burner that's when I start to raise
an eyebrow and recommend against buying
them and the last supplement on my list
is beta alanine so in this case it isn't
that beta-alanine doesn't work it almost
certainly does just not for typical
resistance training beta-alene works by
lowering the level of acidity in the
muscle which helps the muscle keep
pushing for a bit longer that sounds
like a very good thing but the problem
is that increased acidity likely isn't
causing fatigue for sets that last less
than 30 seconds or so it takes time for
lactic acid to build up in a typical
muscle building set in the range of say
8 to 12 reps doesn't last long enough
for beta alanine to have an effect in
fact this 2012 meta-analysis found that
beta alanine was only effective for
exercise lasting one to four minutes and
didn't do anything for exercise lasting
less than 60 seconds so sets under 20 to
30 reps or so most likely won't yield
any benefit from beta-alanine
supplementation that said I do think
beta alanine is great for endurance
training and it could be beneficial for
people who do a lot of really high rep
sets or even circuit style workouts that
have both a resistance component and a
cardio component but for people simply
looking to build muscle most training
should be in the 6 to 15 rep range or so
anyway and in that rep range beta
alanine doesn't seem to work and that's
it for this one guys if you're looking
for a complete guide to your nutrition
including the supplements that I do
recommend you can check out my Ultimate
Guide to body recomposition on my
website jeffnipper.com it's over 250
pages of information on calories protein
cardio supplements sleep sample meal
plans and really everything you need to
know so I'll leave a link to that down
below don't forget to leave me a thumbs
up if you enjoyed the video subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here in the next one