some of the exercises on this tier list
I think most of you haven't even heard
of before we jump in this video isn't
just about the biceps it's about The
Three Bs the three muscles that Flex our
elbows the biceps brachi the brachialis
and the bracho radialis first we have
the barell curl the barell curl is a
time- tested classic but perhaps not the
best bicep exercise first the positives
it can easily be overloaded can be used
in a variety of repetition ranges and is
widely available however It suffers from
a few meaningful limitations first it
places next to no tension on the biceps
and the stretch position instead the
greatest resistance occurs when the
elbow reaches 90Â° of elbow flexion
placing more tension in the stretch
According to some emerging research
would make for a better bicep exercise
to illustrate this idea zabita cord and
colleagues compared the incline curl
where Peak resistance is applied on the
biceps at the top of the rep to the
preacher curl where Peak resistance is
applied to the biceps in the stretch
position preacher curl resulted in more
growth of the elbow flexors overall at
all three sights suggesting we want more
resistance in the stretch second the Bal
curl doesn't provide a great stretch to
the biceps since your arm is right by
your side if we were to bring your arm
behind our torso and extend our shoulder
instead we would get a greater stretch
many Studies have found greater
hypertrophy when training through a more
stretched range of motion making this a
draw back to the bottle curl want proof
there are four studies looking at
focusing on the stretch and the biceps
generally these studies find similar or
greater growth when focusing on doing
stretch training the most extreme
findings are by satwi and colleagues who
found somewhere between a bit more
growth to six times more growth
depending on the area measured when
doing stretched partials compared to
shortened partials while the difference
probably isn't quite this large it is
worth making sure we stretch the biceps
in the exercise we do with which makes
the B curl suboptimal third a b curl
involves a decent amount of
stabilization by the core and other
muscles and is relatively easy to treat
overall the ball curl is an okay
exercise earning it a place in B tier
and we'll use it as a benchmark for
other exercises its close cousin the
easy bar curl is very similar the only
difference between the easy bar curl and
barbell curl is that an easy bar allows
for slightly more variation in grip
positioning AKA less superation while
this slight L stretches the biceps it's
a tiny difference making barbell curls
and easy bar curls very similar
importantly one of the claims made by
Mike mener was that easy bar curls are
worse for bicep growth there is no
strong scientific basis for this so I'll
Place Easy Bar curls in beer right above
barbell curls what if you use dumbbells
instead the dumbbell curl is a slightly
better option for a couple of reasons
for one it allows a bit more flexibility
with wrist positioning making it usable
for a wider variety of training Tres
indeed some traines get joint pain when
forced into strong supination
Additionally the dumbb Cur requires
minimal setup you just grab the
dumbbells and get going and it's loaded
unilaterally allowing you to minimize
imbalances so dumbbell curls get put
into a let's stick to the theme of
dumbbells there are three other dumbbell
curls that deserve ranking the incline
curl the preacher curl and the recently
named lying dumbbell curl let's touch on
the incline curl and preacher curl first
the incline curl was shown to cause less
muscle growth than the preacher by
zabita cor and colleagues a direct study
comparing two exercises is the strongest
evidence we can rely on even more so
than scientifically derived general
principles therefore we need to rank the
incline curl lower than the preacher
curl however the incline curl is likely
still slightly better than a standing
the curl since it's same movement just
more stretched sitting down also reduces
involvement of the core musculature and
instability therefore the incline curl
goes into high A2 the preach curl
therefore has to go into high S2 it's
been shown to cause robust growth in
several studies likely on account of how
much resistance there is in the stretch
position when the forearm is parallel to
the ground likewise the barbell or Easy
Bar preacher c will be placed high in
this tier list but since they can often
restrict the stretch by hitting the
safeties because they're less time
efficient and because they're less
flexible in terms of wrist positioning
will relegate them to a2p next let's
talk about the lying dumball CW
pioneered by Dr mik's R it has the same
benefit but even more of it as a
preacher CW being hardest at the bottom
of the lift in addition it stretches the
biceps more than a preacher curl by
having the arm in a neutral position
Instead This sounds great but there is
one big catch the front delts are
heavily involved you're performing an
isometric contraction to keep your arms
from falling down like wet noodles in
fact the asymmetric contraction is so
challenging that it could feasibly make
the biceps no longer the limiting factor
therefore we'll put this exercise in
high a let's move on to the machine
section of the gym first the machine
preacher Cur while this is a very time
efficient exercise it also usually
discards its biggest Advantage the
resistance profile whereas a freee
pracher curl is hardest in the stretch a
machine preacher curl is frequently
hardest in the peak contraction this is
a big deal as the resistance profile in
the stretch is one of if not the main
thing to look for in a good exercise on
top of that like other preacher curls it
shortens the biceps at the shoulder by
having your arm elevated therefore
machine preacher curl goes into midb
tier if you often wonder what the best
exercise for building muscle is my adapt
is a training app for you my adapt ranks
all exercises for you based on
Effectiveness and gives you a truly
individualized training program based on
what equipment you have do you train in
a home gym and you don't have access to
a lot of equipment my adapt con covery
or do you train in a commercial gym
where you have access to a bunch of
equipment my my adapt can also adapt to
that circumstance my adapt is going to
be the smartest training app on the
market and having looked at the
competition I can confidently say it is
like nothing else out there if you'd
like to be notified when myap launches
and sign up for a lifetime discount go
to my adapt.com and put in your email
load up the cable stack it's time to
talk about cable exercises there are
four exercises to discuss here from
worst to best first the cable curl the
traditional cable curl is an okay
exercise but It suffers from many of the
same limitations as the barbell curl
there is a bit more resistance in the
stretch position and it's slightly more
time efficient but all the other
downsides of a standing curl still apply
High B tier next a slightly better
option the beijan curl named by meno
henselman this exercise places your arms
behind you to stretch out the biceps a
bit more it also allows us to put the
cables higher and place more tension or
resistance in the stretch position
therefore it both provides more stretch
and resistance in the stretch two
important components of a good exercise
but it retains the standing component it
also loads the arms unilaterally
remedying imbalances into high a if only
we could find a way to remove the
standing component and make an S tier
exercise oh wait we can the bench cable
curl trademarked all the benefits of
aasan curl minus the standing component
straight into s finally we have the of
Forgotten crucifix curl besides being
the most Alpha looking bicep exercise
the peak squeeze is is literally a front
of a bicep pose it's a decent exercise
the short head of the biceps is
responsible for transverse flexion
meaning bringing your arms out to your
sides stretches it more and yes more
stretch is probably good however this
doesn't apply to any of the other elbow
flexors let alone the long head of the
biceps it can be a good variation to
include every now and then for
completeness sake hia to round out our
list we have three controversial
exercises first the reverse barbell curl
let's compare it to the barbell C by
adopting an overhand grip we stretch the
biceps a bit more this is a good thing
however we also involve our forearm
extensors to keep our wrists straight
these muscles are relatively weak and
can limit performance therefore reverse
curls May reduce how close we can take
our elbow flexors to failure in my view
this benefit and drawback roughly cancel
each other out so I'll put the reverse
curl right below the Bell curl for
overall elbow flexible growth next the
chin or pull-up or any pull down or
pull-up variation those can be a pretty
good option for bicep growth the
downside many other muscles are involved
there's a much larger stabilization
required and the movement is more
fatiguing than a bicep curl will ever be
however we actually have two studies
looking at the effect of back training
on bicep growth a study on a dumbbell
row found only around half the growth
from underhand dumbbell rows compared to
supern dumbbell curls so row may not be
the best bicep G
however the second study comparing the
wide grip pronated pull down to the
barbell curl found similar bicep growth
though they only measured one area of
the biceps nevertheless based on this
study similar growth to a dumbbell cwl
means we can cautiously put pull-ups or
vertical pulling into high betail
finally we have the banded bicep curl
this has all the downsides of a barbell
curl with the additional downside of
placing even less resistance in the
stretch the one upside the Bandit curl
has does is that it allows you to get
more bicep stretch by getting your arm
behind you since resistance profile is a
bit more important than just stretch
I'll put the bid curl into C tier now if
I had to tell you what's the best bicep
exercise honestly I'm not 100% sure I
think it's probably going to be the
bench cable curl or the preacher curl
because of how important the stretch is
and you get more of a stretch in the
bench cable curl by having your arm
behind you I'd put my money on the bench
cable curl but I could be wrong we need
a studies comparing the two for me to
tell you beyond the shadow of a doubt in
the meantime we can use General
scientific principles to guide exercise
selection regardless incorporate some
preacher curls into your routine
incorporate some stretch cable curls and
you'll be doing some of the best bicep
exercises but I want to hear from you
did I rank any exercises wrongly are
there any exercises I forgot to rank if
you think so let me know down below and
I'll reply to some of the most upvoted
comments Dr Milo wolf we out oh