how to deal with nagging injuries i'm dr
mike israel for renaissance
periodization and you're probably
interested in how to deal with nagging
increases maybe you have had a few or
even currently do and if you don't have
any maybe you should find out what would
happen if one of your clients had one
and asked you about it or if you got one
or some in the future and i'll tell you
this
if you train hard enough for long enough
you're bound to get a few of these so
how do we proceed
because you might notice that you google
stuff you research stuff there tends to
be the a lot of things to say and read
and learn about training normally and a
lot of stuff to say and read and learn
about like okay your pet came off your
bone you broke your knee into 50 pieces
serious injuries really acute stuff
and sometimes there's just not much to
say about like oh gee like i don't know
my pec tendon kind of hurts a little bit
i don't know if it's bad you look at
like oh treatment for pack tendon stuff
and it's like surgery crazy
anti-inflammatories take six weeks off
of training you're like
good god it's not that bad
so we're trying to fill the gap here
with this video
to get you guys aware of what to do when
it's just a little bit of a nagging
injury something's bothering you turns
out there is an easy eight-step plan i
feel like i'm selling you guys some kind
of like
little cleaning squeegee thing that is a
payment plan but uh eight step plan that
actually it gives you sort of uh
a very good idea of what to do and how
to proceed and even though it's eight
steps sounds complicated trust me it's
super super simple so
without further ado the eighth up just
kidding before we get to that let's talk
about what we should be doing to prevent
nagging injuries as much as possible
notice i didn't say completely because
you can't actually prevent it completely
even all the best training in the world
training is inherently disruptive
bad stuff happens right it's like you
know if you're raunching launching
rockets into space
a few things are going to go wrong some
rockets are going to blow up it's kind
of inevitable because the rocket is a
controlled explosion okay and then some
stuff happens right but you can engineer
a rocket in such a way
that reduces the chances of explosion
considerably right so what should you be
doing in order to prevent most nagging
injuries to begin with first is using
good technique
nothing can help you more than this and
nothing can hurt you more than the
alternative if you use bad technique
you're kind of a nagging injury waiting
to happen and probably worse than a
nagging injury a serious acute injury
happens a good technique is number one
and we have tons of videos about what
that is so please check through our
playlists in the youtube channel and
you'll get a ton of insight on not only
examples of good technique for all the
major lifts but also what it really
means to have a good technique because
we have videos about that as well
second making sure to use proper volumes
first point on that is using volumes
that are under your maximum recoverable
volume there's an amount of volume you
can do which your body can recover from
and anything above that it can't when
your body doesn't recover all the micro
tearing that occurs with training turns
into nagging injuries that's one of the
most common ways of actually figuring
out oh god i've been over a maximum
recovery volume for some time is because
you start to develop nagging injuries
and if you stay under that your body has
ample ability to recover from training
and then all of a sudden you have way
few of your injuries which is really
really good
secondly even within your maximum
recoverable volume it's been shown time
and time again in the research
literature and a lot of personal
experience from tons of athletes and
coaches that wildly increasing your
volume session to session or week to
week uh really tends to increase your
chance of injury and if it's not an
acute injury thank god it could still be
a sort of a presentation of a nagging
injury that takes a while to go away or
just keeps hanging around so instead of
doing like three sets of squats this
week and six sets of squats next week
maybe go three this week four next week
five and so on and so forth easing into
higher volumes in the weeks of a program
real good idea will again reduce the
probability that you get an aggie injury
to begin with
point c
is having a proper weekly structure an
example of that is not loading the same
structures with high volume back to back
to back so for example
maybe you can do
high bar squats five sets heavy on
monday on wednesday you do high bar
squats two or three sets lighter and
then on friday you do high bar squats
for another five sets lighter but for
high reps and really close to failure so
you have two really hard squatting
workouts but one easier one so that the
fatigue you generate in the first
workout has a tendency to decline
considerably before you generate it
again a good way to get an angular
injury is to do five sets of hard high
bar squats heavy monday and again
wednesday and again friday if you're a
beginner it probably won't matter
because you're well too weak to hurt
yourself but as you get bigger and
stronger and intermediate and advanced
years that kind of stuff is really
really sure-fire way to get you
at least a nagging injury and possibly
much worse so
that's the deal there and it's something
you can avoid entirely
by just understanding that there are
times to push in times to recede and
hammering your body over and over is
probably not a great idea
to that effect that consistent hammering
you can do it for a while even in a
proper structure so let's see we have
that monday lots of high bar squatting
wednesday just a little bit still a good
decent stimulus but enough to recover a
bit and then we have uh friday high bar
squats again if you run that for one
week no problem if you run it for two
three four five you get a lot of fatigue
and then you properly deload and goes
away but if you've been squatting in
some capacity high bar same technique
for months and months and months your
knees are starting to feel weird your
hips are starting to feel weird maybe
it's time for more variation so our next
to last point is a proper amount of
variation when your exercises start to
feel really stale like at first benches
were going well and then a few months
later your elbows kind of feel weird
when you do them and it doesn't really
matter if they're heavier light anymore
your elbows kind of feel strange then
it's probably a time to trade off the
exercise instead of barbell bench go to
machine presses smith machine process
dumbbell presses there's 50 other
variations you could use
deficit-weighted push-ups and then when
you use those variations they don't hurt
your joints anymore they don't even kind
of feel stale or weird so that instead
of getting naggy injuries you can
prevent them by making sure to rotate
our exercises when they start to have
that feeling of like you know soon there
will be an egg injury a funny first
analogy that popped in my head is like
how do you avoid hangovers and really
bad experiences when you're drunk
it's difficult to do because when you're
drinking it's difficult to think but we
all have that moment at the bar the
party around our friends where we're
like push you know pushing back you know
shot number seven and we have that
feeling like
i feel great i feel drunk
and you have this little inkling of
thought in your head like if i kept
drinking at this speed i'm gonna have a
bad time i'm gonna get way too drunk
that's when you sort of go eh
let's start doing some waters or some
sodas interspersed with shots instead of
just shot shot shots same idea here you
have especially as you're more advanced
developed in intuition uh when your hips
start to feel a certain way from
deadlifting you've got it it's time for
deficit deadlifts because they've been
down the sword before and if uh he let
the weirdness feeling hang around not
pain not injury just yet then it'd
eventually get into pain because i've
been here before so it's good to make
sure to get whatever you can get out of
an exercise and when it starts to go
south on you trade it away for something
else no big deal
lastly is fatigue management kind of
mentioned this already but it's good to
really put a fine point on it taking off
days properly okay team no days off oh
fucking nobody on that team nobody lives
on that team this is a stupid team
you're not on a team right instagram
hashtags are not teams
recovery sessions are a good idea
especially if you're an advanced athlete
in a competitive sport deloads of course
once every you know one to two months
and active rest faces when you're really
beat up physiologically and
psychologically two or more weeks off
from the gym entirely just go play
volleyball with your super hot friends
and cook hot dogs by the fire on the
beach i'm just reciting what i've seen
on various commercials about coca-cola
and t-shirts and stuff i don't have any
friends i've never been to a beach and
i'm probably not
coordinated enough to put a hot dog on a
stick but in any case things like that
active rest loads etc it's a good way to
make sure that all the fatigue that's
creeping up that will eventually cause
injury gets low enough so that it
doesn't and if you do this stuff
you many times will not even need these
eight step action plans for nagging
injury because you won't develop them
but if you're training hard even despite
all your best efforts hopefully you're
doing here you will get them and if
you're not getting them
your clients might be getting them or
your friends might be getting them or
someone who comes up to you at the gym
and say hey noticed you're big and
strong
my elbow
it uh
it hurts what should i do and you might
want to tell them something better than
hey get the fuck out of my face i'm
training you could always say that see
how it goes all right
eight step plan you have a nagging
injury
step number one is to determine
what exactly is going on
not let you have an mri scanner in your
eyes jared feather has one because he's
a cyborg but we don't all have that
luxury
you want to know at least generally
what's hurting you and you can just do a
little movement do a little back and
forth kind of feel things out for
example this is what you could determine
is it your elbow joint or your tricep
tendon okay i had a recent injury that i
got from jiu jitsu of course
and i was like oh my elbow hurts is it
my triceps tendon please god no i need
that thing to do presses with and my
triceps are so beautiful i don't ever
want them hurt so what did i do well i
found that my elbow hurt roughly in this
position it didn't really hurt here it
didn't hurt here and then in the
positions of which it didn't hurt i
applied a huge amount of tension through
the tricep tendon by literally pressing
against an object that won't move but
remember i'm not in an elbow position
that hurt at the time if it was the
tricep tendon clearly applying a high
degree of force through it should hurt
it and it didn't and it didn't hurt over
here either when i really pushed in my
tricep but it did hurt right here and it
didn't even hurt with any force just
moving through this mid-range i was like
like that like i would grab the remote
control to watch tv and you know my wife
would be like hey can you put on like
whatever netflix thing and i was like
sure and go
oh it feels good
back and forth okay that's not a tricep
tendon it doesn't take an mri machine or
a medical degree to figure that out
that's some stuff inside the joints
you're kind of going to want to figure
out what it is that's going on because
here's the deal
if it's the tricep tendon gee you know
you've got some trade-offs to make
because if it is man probably everything
involving the triceps is putting you at
some degree of actually turning that
nagging injury into a real serious one
and your your plan for backing off is
going to be pretty considerate but if
you're sorry considerable if it's just
an internal structural injury in the
elbow itself then you know if you find
exercises that work around it you could
even find tricep movements maybe
partials or something like that uh that
or some kind of some kind of angle
presses don't hurt then maybe it's not a
big deal right so you know you really
really kind of want to know as much as
possible about what's going on at the
very least find out where the pain is
and what's causing it okay what's
causing it so
another thing you want to figure out
is
is it getting worse from further
training or staying the same or as if
it's getting better okay so if you had
an injury that or an injury you had a
nagging pain in your knees when you're
squatting with the bar just warming up
you go oh fuck i'm gonna die maybe
maybe not you put more weight on the bar
or you repeat the the set with the bar
you go shit like is this really an
injury you do the bar again but now
you're more warmed up you may find that
the pain is halfway as bad as it was or
just goes away completely then you go
back it wasn't a big deal and you keep
warming up and the pain is gone it
wasn't an injury it wasn't nagging it
wasn't major it wasn't serious it wasn't
anything above there's just some creaks
and quirks you got to work out like we
all have that kind of stuff every now
and again
on the other hand if the bar hurts and
then you do it again and it hurts worse
and you put 135 on that it hurts a lot
gee you know you've got some real
serious decisions to make and
potentially sometimes session to session
or warm-up to warm-up
the in the the site doesn't hurt anymore
any less it hurts the same
if that happens for a few weeks yeah
you're gonna have to do something about
it but sometimes one or two sessions the
stuff hurts and it's never like really
bad and then it goes away that happens
man maybe like in my experience seventy
percent of the time when something feels
weird or hurts a little bit you keep
going it hurts the same at some point it
just drops off and like you wake up on
thursday and you're like time to do
pull-ups i know my elbow's going to hurt
you go do pull-ups and you're like what
the fuck we just healed randomly
sometimes that happens so there's no
reason to freak out you have to
understand that the outcome we're really
looking for is uh you know the one we're
really going to focus on is if the pain
is kind of getting worse if you continue
to do the same thing right
now
point number two or action step number
two is to delimit the situation and
understand what hurts the site and what
doesn't so if it does hurt over time or
just doesn't go away or go away over
several weeks of doing the same
exercises you have to figure out which
movements or exercises hurt and which
don't because there's a paranoia that
hits so people say oh my god tricep
pushdowns hurt my elbow something's
wrong i got to take time off of all
upper body or all triceps hold on a sec
what about skull crushers what about
dumbbell skull crushers what about the
rope attachment what about overhead work
you could find and again maybe seven to
eight times out of ten i found that when
a joint or some kind of muscle or
something in my body hurts doing a
particular exercise i try another
exercise and it still hurts i try
another exercise and it's just symptom
free like benching hurts my elbows and
then i do deficit push-ups and they feel
1000 fine well good god look we'll see
in a bit that's a real different course
of action than if everything hurts so
your job in point number two is to
delimit the exercises that hurt the
region and the exercises that maybe hurt
much less and maybe the ones that don't
hurt at all ideally focusing on that
group
now
here's the thing you're not
sure what's causing it 100 you don't
have medical imaging it sure as hell
would be a giant waste of time for you
to go to the doctor because if every
time i had a nagging pain ache or pain i
went to the doctor i would be going to
the doctor
literally once every two weeks okay so
it's not worth your time it's not worth
the doctor's time shows hell isn't worth
the money so what you want to do is
alternate exercises you want to
restructure your plan
and choose all the exercises that do one
of two things ideally don't hurt the
area at all or significantly uh hurt it
significantly less and move entirely
away from exercises that hurt a ton
right now here's the thing if you're a
competitive power lifter and low bar
squats are what hurt you got serious
issues uh at that point you have to make
a decision whether or not you're going
to do your meet in six weeks because if
you can't low bar squat it might just
not happen for you but if you're in a
hypertrophy training or just general
strength training just get strong all
over exercise selection doesn't matter
all that much so basically you want to
pick exercises that just don't hurt the
area so let's say your lower back is
hurting from bent over rows you do
dumbbell rows and it feels fine you do
machine rows and it feels fine well shit
you just restructure your program to
have only dumbbell rows and machine rows
and then you hit it up and that's point
number four step number four is progress
like normally making consistent gains in
those alternate moves if you can't do
barbell skull crushers anymore but you
find that dumbbell skull crushers don't
hurt you at all in your shoulder then
you just progress normally on dumbbell
skull crushers and guess what you have
amazing training and great progress and
some in the back of your mind you're
like
i wonder if barbell squad crushers will
hurt me but i kind of don't care for the
time being it's like if you go to a
restaurant you're like do you guys have
that pasta dish i like no sorry no pasta
today but we have a lot of rice dishes
and you're like fuck
all right i'll take the rice dish and
then you eat the rice station it's
really good you're like oh this is great
and when you're no longer hungry and
someone's like oh man they don't have
pasta today like yeah i guess not it'll
come back tomorrow maybe they'll have it
but i don't care because i got fed one
way or another remember there's no
golden exercise so it's okay to
alternate and go with it a huge huge
thing i've seen over and over as a coach
or a practitioner or whatever just an
observer you know i'm creeping in in the
back of the gym always watching everyone
is people will say oh man like squatting
hurts my knees you're like have you
considered just leg pressing and hack
squatting does that hurt them like no it
doesn't why don't you do that and
they're like well i can't not squat i'm
like oh you got a power lifting
competition coming up no
but squats man squats bro you know it's
like rocky balboa shit heated squats i
think uh don't be addicted to doing
specific exercises it's not dogma just
do the effective movements that you can
and if some movements don't hurt or hurt
much less gee that's really what you
should be doing
all right
point number five
is to inspect step number five is
respect and that really means that you
should be a little bit alert at least
after a few weeks
of for when you
think the nagging injury might have gone
away so for example let's say your knee
hurts squatting and if you're walking
upstairs it hurts just a tiny little bit
like it you can just feel it it's not a
pain you're like oh there it is
if i really if i squat it with her and
lack squats and leg presses don't hurt
at all so you've been three weeks four
weeks hammering away hacks and leg
presses legs are bigger and stronger
than ever
and you notice like
you know someone maybe like you know
your girlfriend comes over and she's
like oh hey uh let's go upstairs oh okay
i'll walk with you slow because i know
your knee hurts and you're like does it
and you're halfway up the stairs at this
point you're like i actually doesn't
feel weird at all to be honest i forgot
my knee ever hurt
so maybe i'm good now here's the thing a
lot of the stuff is kind of obvious if
you really just don't even remember an
injury even bothering you there's a
decent chance that it's gone away of
course there's a chance that if you test
the actual squad still sucks and still
hurts but if it's one of those things
where you know day in and day out the
injury still hurts you're trying to
brush your teeth and your forearms like
ah
clearly i've inspected every day i
brushed my teeth i inspect and the
answer is no
it's a good idea to keep on alert for
when maybe this injury starts to go away
and or it still continues
if and when
you've inspected and been aware and
realized hey i think i might actually be
recovered or let's see if i am because
it's not clear to me i'm hurt anymore
try to do and this is a huge point
some very light reps
with the main exercise that used to hurt
so if squatting was hurting your knees
try some light 45 pound or even
unweighted squats okay
most people's answer to this is wildly
wrong and it's hey i don't feel like
anything's wrong anymore i'm gonna work
up to my max
don't do that there's no point in it i
promise you're still a good person deep
down even if you don't have your one
room acts in the squat record in your
notebook every three days okay so
very light reps and see if it how it
feels if it still hurts go back to step
number three which is
you know keep on or redesign another
program with exercises that don't hurt
it
if it doesn't hurt then you move on to
the next step which is step number seven
step number seven is easing in assuming
that you even want to use that exercise
because here's the deal you might have
like
six to ten really good tricep exercises
only barbell skull crushers hurt your
elbow everything else doesn't you might
have taken away barbell skull crusher's
last mesocycle because they started
nagging your elbows
and then you might have used two or
three other ones but there's like i
don't know seven other exercises you
could be using and maybe barbell scrub
crushers aren't even your favorite so
you don't have to come back to it right
away but if you want to come back to it
right away
you
you
ease in
and
my best recommendation
is if you're taking those older
exercises that used to hurt you don't
put them first in the program let's say
you have some chest work and some tricep
work and you have two tricep exercises
at the end after chest work don't put
skull crushers that used to hurt your
elbows as your first tricep exercise put
them as your last ones you can do them
very very light
and keep the alternate exercises as your
heavy ones so if you the dumbbell skull
crushers felt great still do those as
exercise one for the tricep exercise two
instead of overhead rope extensions try
the barbell skull crushers and see if it
you know because you already tested it
in point number six and it felt fine
with really lightweight
now you're gonna try it with moderate
weight higher reps still very good
technique nice and slow and if it
doesn't hurt
go all up go a bit heavier go a bit
heavier and after a while
then you're actually good to go so point
number eight is the diagnosis point
if this number seven of reintroducing an
exercise is a lighter variation goes
well and you keep progressing and it
keeps going uh you're done like you no
longer have an anging injury and then
next message you can put it first in the
program it's probably going to feel fine
you're good to go
however if the injury
never goes away to begin with or it
comes back
or if retrying with light weights shows
you that it's still there two or three
times in a row after a month or two of
backing off and you're still not better
then it's probably time to go see a
sports medicine doctor because there
might be something in there that some
therapy or some drugs or some surgery
you could take care of and it might be a
little bit more serious than you thought
folks that's it
be smart be smart and be patient and
you're going to get jacked you're going
to get strong very smoothly if you
intelligently move away from when things
are bad right not just plowing through
when when when things are are bad
plowing through gets you almost nothing
right like if you're a combat situation
when you know whatever kind of combat
video games you play and there's like 50
troops and a tank coming this way and
two troops and one of them ran out of
bullets this way and you're behind a
house you don't like run into the tank
and the troops and die that's running
into the nagging injury you go okay this
is bad pivot run in and kill those two
guys with small arms and then regroup
with your buddies and go kill the tank
and all the other guys that's
basically what we're talking about here
in training terms is you know skull
crushers hurt your elbows
stop doing skull crushers do something
else then ease back in later and if it
works great if not you got some thinking
to do folks thank you so much and see
you next time hopefully less hurt
you