oh oh he ugly hey Scott can you shut the
up this is me digging on myself not you
laughing at me like I'm
[Music]
a hey folks Dr Mike is Rell here for
Renaissance cretization and I'm also a
professor of exercise and sports science
at Leman College in the Bronx in New
York City in New York state I usually
forget that when in the United States in
the Western Hemisphere on planet Earth
in the solar
system in the Orion arm of the Milky Way
and I believe I'm leveling up today in I
think what's called like the local
cluster of galaxies but I think I fucked
that up science people tell me I'm an
idiot in any case speaking of me being
an idiot it turns out I have an
unbelievable qualification I've been an
idiot for a long time and I've been
training for a long time 20 some odd
years and so Scott the video guy and I
we dug up my old training footage
lurking about in places in YouTube and
even worse and we're going to critique
the living crap out of it today so time
to slam dunk on myself let's kick
it all right so I can tell you guys a
lot about this video This Is Me
squatting what I believe is a sum total
of something like 529 lbs I forget that
is in kilos I think I'm going to hit it
for four reps if I believe that
correctly is it going to be high bar
squat done not for hypertrophy of the
quadriceps but as M kak uh famous
Russian lifter once said which is for
the soul for the soul this is just me I
think I was like about maybe 27 years
old or 26 years old which means it's
like 11 or 12 years ago and I'm just
trying to get really big and strong
generally I was recently not drug-free
here and I uh was really feeling that
swag so let's find out how awful the
technique is or maybe
not yeah yet you have to bark at weights
that are sufficiently heavy now Scott
the video guys laughing his assw he
thinks this is insane and it is but I'll
tell you guys this I don't do this kind
of stuff anymore generally in the gym
because if I put this much emotional
energy into something my probability of
using the best mind muscle connection
Falls precipitously my probability of
putting out an exceptional amount of
effort Rises insanely and so I can I can
crank out way more weight and way more
reps my injury risk increases at the
expense of targeting the muscle that I
want so now as a competitive bodybuilder
and I wasn't back then I have yet to do
my first show um I was just trying to
get fucking big and strong and just just
do ego shit and I did and I succeeded at
it but now that I no longer do that I
don't get the psyched up for lifting
anymore was it fun to get the psyched up
oh my God yes none of this is fake I
don't fake bark at the weights like I
was so inspired to go hard that the bark
just comes out um you're just you know
#o to war brother but these are all
genuine heartfelt emotions nothing for
the Graham there was no Graham back then
what were we doing with our
lives good
setup little smack talk why is my face
so fat and round because the rest of me
was also fatter and rounder hey Scott
can you shut the up this is me digging
on myself not you laughing at me like
I'm a anyway it's like back to middle
school again everyone laughing at me I
was gross all
right
right you'll see me looking down at my
feet my walk back was uh something that
requires a lot of thought um and so I'm
I'm super amped up with psychic energy
uh and inspiration and rage um positive
rage for the planet I'm still trying to
be technical in the setup once the setup
occurs it's just hope the body does the
right thing go deep come back up that's
it one
rep good depth you guys can see that my
gut is basically spilling over my belt
now this is a strategy a very high level
so please stay with me this is 8D chess
become fat enough to look grotesque have
such a difficult time interacting with
women that you are overloaded at all
times in the game and actually how to
talk to girls and pick them up so much
so that you you don't talk to anyone and
you don't actually get better at the
game and and you stay dry for years on
end it worked all right back to the
lifting I'd say pretty good Pace you
guys will notice I'm dipping and
bouncing a little bit out of the hole in
an athletic weightlifting technique High
bar squat that's how you squat this is
effective for hypertrophy It's very
effective for strength if I was
critiquing this from the perspective of
maximizing hypertrophy I would first of
all not do a set of four which is what
I'm doing here I believe and also um I
would pause or at least slow down the
Ecentric significantly to be able to use
less weight on the bar but have as much
total time over tension imposed on the
muscles in a position that is safer and
marginally more effective if I saw
someone in the gym lifting light has
been down that's really good but if they
were like hey do you have any tips on
how to maximize this lift for
hypertrophy over the long term with
safety included I'd be like oh oh God
yeah thank God you asked here's like
eight tips right one of them would be to
stay even more upright push the knees
forward more that does not allow you to
use the glutes and the hips as much as
typically I would in this situation and
thus it lowers the amount of weight you
can lift but it shifts more of the
weight to your quads so if you're
squatting for big legs you actually
squat in a way it's super super upright
with your knees going really far over
your toes so long as your heels are down
you control the Centric significantly
more pause at the bottom and then come
back up and what that allows you to do
is to maximize the squat from the
perspective of stimulating quad growth
but it does come at a trade-off of
squatting as much weight as you possibly
could there are many many people in the
gym there's nothing wrong with this that
go in the gym to get bigger and stronger
at the same time this kind of technique
is perfect for that if you just wanted
to get stronger you would do low bar
squats I would shift the weight down on
my back if I just wanted to get bigger
then I would do the squat as I just
described to you knees forward more much
more upright slower on the way down and
a nice pause at the bottom but really
hear the range of motions quite
good there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
results
oh
yeah so this is me actually at a gym
called boss barbell which I think still
exists um I used to be quite good
friends with uh Mr Dan Green who is Dan
Green and one of the greatest lifters of
all time and Beyond jacked um and so you
guys can see that I'm a few things I
weigh so roughly 245 lbs here but much
fatter than I am today at that same body
weight and um I am going to be underhand
rowing I think like 300 lb or something
for 10 you notice it's the easy bar
which I highly recommend for underhand
rows I used to do them all the time then
actually got too big to be able to grab
an easy bar anymore and get a stretch at
the bottom so I stopped doing them for a
long time you'll also notice that I'm in
flip-flops all serious Eastern European
lifters can lift in flip-flops this is a
known thing and uh I'm on two wooden
blocks and that's to extend the range of
motion and get a big stretch at the
bottom so I think my technique here is
pretty
good big chest before movement big
breath in straight back pretty
good touch the gut some people will say
but Mike you're not touching your torso
yeah sure shit am my gut just sticks out
so much I don't have that far to move
making this lift less impressive than it
would otherwise be you'll notice I'm
looking up and forward the entire time
to keep my back straight good stretch at
the bottom touching the ground every
time uh I would like to see a slower
Ecentric uh ideally for hypertrophy but
this isn't
terrible the person doing is ugly that
receding hairline situation is pretty
dope that tells me like uh this is an
older person and he doesn't have a lot
of Hope left which was true at the
time big
chest not terrible not terrible at all a
little body English towards the last few
reps not ideal not the end of the world
for sure I wouldn't do that today but I
don't hate
it oh and that's an old school RP shirt
I'm wearing ing the original logo can't
get that anymore I just don't sell it
aha this was when I was a personal
trainer in New York City right around
2009 I think I was about uh 23 24 25
years old that's I believe Mr Nick Shaw
spotting me this is back when Nick and I
were both trainers in New York this is
pre RP in that gym which is now known as
I think complete body and fitness or
something on 19th Street in New York
City in Manhattan that gym used to be
called back then 19th Street or as we
called it because all the other members
called it 19th way 19th everyone was
more Street than we were so we felt a
little bit like vanilla but it was dope
so this is um uh lifetime drug free
close grip bench 275 lb I believe I did
this for like close to 20 reps or
something like that let's see the
technique I was so fat look at how fat I
Am 250 lbs uh something like that big
ass gut I am doing an arch and
retraction I can't bench this close
anymore with an arch and retraction CU
I've just straight up gotten too big for
it and let's see how it goes all right
so a couple things you can notice one is
the speed with which my Concentra goes
on 275 like I'm just strong let's cut me
a little bit of slack the Centric
control is almost non existent and I am
bouncing off my chest a little bit is
that ideal absolutely not if I saw this
I'd be like hey that's really impressive
and old me it be like thanks be like do
you want to learn how to lift better
like yes take those 25s off
mother full lockouts
a lot of people will bench in an arc I
actually prefer with an arch to bench in
a straight
line it's where I feel
best yep you'll notice that I'm not very
stable with regard to the bench and the
floor I should have been wedging my feet
better that would have gotten me a
better result and no I'm actually not
using any hip Drive uh I never did use a
lot ofac
Drive o
that was it so the reason I racked that
was because for me when the bench starts
slowing down a lot I'm sufficiently fast
twitching my chest and triceps that it
if I start slowing down I'm not getting
another rep hey original RP logo love it
oh yes this is 275 lbs for eight reps in
the exercise science laboratory at the
University of Central Missouri where I
was a professor at the time and uh this
is with actually a deadlift bar I
preferred I purchased that bar for the
gym and I preferred to overhead press
with a skinny bar because it let me get
a little bit closer to my face and
actually feels a little better in my
hands I I have very small hands uh and
genitals this was the absolute peak of
my overhead pressing strength I weighed
about 240 lbs in this video 242 or so
and I did this uh 275 lbs for eight reps
and I pretty much have no critiques here
I don't think cuz these were clean reps
so you'll notice that I'm pressing up
and back I'm really rocking my head and
chest back and up and then down and
forward at the top that's how you do a
proper standing barbell press and like
as I was doing these reps I was like wow
I'm still doing these reps this is
[Music]
crazy voila sweet oh yeah classic look
this is a good look this is what happens
when genetic Engineers try to raise a
human in a lab and they successfully
raised the body into adulthood but the
face and head stay of babies an ugly
babies so baby head Mike is gonna squat
45 lb for 14 repetitions I think it was
going to be 15 but I just miscounted
that's the real truth this is um from a
gym in uh that was close to appalachin
State University where I did my master's
program so I was uh about 22 23 years
old in this video and uh drug free
lifetime drug free at that point and
weighing about 240 lb or something
something like that nice and fat oh nice
nice Scott did you throw that in you you
son of a bitch you're fat bork I mean
borks looks a lot better than I do yeah
the the skull is similar but the fat
cheeks I got that bitch I'll fucking day
all right if you like that we have way
more of it uh how much more can we make
in the member section so give a thought
to signing up and you can see the
extended unfiltered raw edition Enjoy
oh oh he ugly you know interestingly
enough I didn't feel ugly I felt just
fine I always had a certain amount of
not giving a fuck about how I looked I
guess so that's
nice work come on come on now all right
so you can see me mouthing Russian swear
words at the bar I really like to have a
disdain for the bar like I like to
pretend that uh not an elaborate pretend
just a very surf level of like fuck you
you know what I'm saying fuck out of my
face bar what the fuck do you know you
know like a real like disdain for it and
I think that that's helpful in those
contexts baby come on all right nice
high bar setup big gut hanging through
notice I had some sizable quads back
then Cas so you notice very exaggerated
hip tilt coming back I don't do that
much anymore again that was to get a lot
of power out of the hips sit back and
down if I was hypertrophy squatting I
would have my chest up higher I would
have my knees go forward I would go much
slower on the Ecentric and take a pause
you'll notice I'm bouncing out of the
whole each time it's not dangerous it's
not terrible it's just a very athletic
kind of weightlifting style squat you
see weightlifter squatting in the back
room usually it looks something like
that there you go let's go come on
[Music]
go there you go there you go right
employing rest pause so uh I was very
comfortable with 400 lb on my back I
could rest with 400 lb on my back if I
locked my hips and knees out so I'll do
a couple reps and then when they slow
down I'll rest and breathe I think this
is a good strategy for anyone that wants
to do a lot of reps in the
squat you'll notice that slight hip tilt
forward at the beginning of of uh some
of the Reps to make sure that I know
which way forward is so I can come back
from
it chest upright notice when I get in
trouble and this is a good cue for you
guys to use if you're getting in trouble
in the squat look up into the sky ey as
long as you're at least a third of the
way up when you get into the sticking
point look up and it's going to maximize
your activation of your entire posterior
chain fire your glutes and your lower
back for you so that you have a much
higher probability of actually standing
up with the weight I see people come 3/4
2/3 up out of a squat looking down and
they'll miss the weight and I'm like
dude you just look up and you'll have an
extra 15 20 lbs no problem so you'll
notice I'm using that here with all of
these final reps at this point I'm out
of breath I was an EXC excent cardio
shape if you can't
tell
come you got
this yeah that's Russian yelling uh and
I was very proud of myself for doing
this so I I had a really great time this
is a very fun moment I was actually
laughing cuz I'm like holy shit I'm the
man yeah this gym full of people but
here's the thing is like this was a
multiple times a day occurrence of
people lifting my weights weren't even
that insane people lifting way heavier
weights screaming way more throwing
stuff that was just the atmosphere it
was a truly Hardcore gym so everyone
there is kind of like it's just Mike
doing his thing great times with friends
this is me doing pull-ups weighing
265 lb with I think 25 lb in the belt so
295 lb of total tension um let's see how
many pull-ups I get and the I'm going to
critique the living out of my technique
here look at that gut it's nowhere no
one's had ever had a bigger gut in love
handles than me I
maintain a little Kip full
range chin over the bar I I need if I
was not an idiot at the time I would
have greatly slowed down my Ecentric on
the way down would have to do that that
would be a really good idea but other
than that I don't I guess I I don't uh
have a ton of hate for these
pull-ups now okay so I weighed 265 back
then and and I was a fat and not nearly
as muscular and I was still doing full
range motion Pull-Ups for I think I get
these for like you know like 5 to eight
reps or something like that and you
could ask the question of like Mike but
I see you doing pull-ups now and you
might have 25 pound on but you only
weigh 250 or 240 or 230 you might even
had a no weight on and you're doing kind
of a similar number of reps did you just
like get weaker on pull-ups here's the
thing there is a humongous difference in
how many pull-ups you can do based on
how your Technique looks if you Kip with
your feet it adds amount of force that
you can exert on the bar if you go
quickly down on the Ecentric it sa it it
saves a ton of Reps for you just slowing
down the Ecentric The Descent phase is a
humongous humongous humongous difference
in how many pull-ups you can actually do
so I'm way stronger my lats are way
bigger now but I can't do as many
pull-ups with as much body weight
because my technique is so different
even subtle differences in technique
have a huge effect on how much weight
you're lifting and the purpose of
hypertrophy training is to that get the
technique so dialed in that you don't
need to use as big of Weights as you
normally would to get the same effect
that radically reduces fatigue it
radically reduces injury risk
probability and it makes everything
better except it's less impressive
externally Mike there's a girl up there
that'll have sex with you look at me go
there wasn't no sex was had I mean how
do you have Seck with a gut that big I
don't know I never had any sex when my
gut was that big and this was roughly I
think like a year year into using
performance enhancing substances you
wore shoes that tied back then I wore
some shoes that tied and then I
discovered that I um have feet that are
basically pointed like this and I wear
out only the outsides of my Souls on
shoes of Souls and then they get
incrementally shittier so that like
there's this wedge that keeps me even
more out this way I realized after this
couple year period that I need to just
wear flat shoes and they don't have that
problem and that that's why I started
wearing my my flat autism shoes all
right time to rate myself technique 8
out of 10
psychology 9 out of 10 getting laid 25
out of 10 cuz your boy was swimming in
the shit coming up for air every now and
again in my dreams and in reality I was
hopeless and alone had no one to talk to
just still the
case see you guys next time un
Lamborghinis are not free and I would
like to buy more of them and we get paid
when you guys watch more YouTube videos
so if you watch this video right here
you'll make me incrementally more
rich