you can't really do the same hard
training frequency for both if you try
to have an optimal hypertrophy training
frequency and you try to do strength
that many times you will burn in the sun
you last like two and a half weeks and
you'll fall apart like Mr Potato Head on
the other hand if you try to get maximum
hypertrophy results training hard as
often as you're strengthening would
dictate then you're training like at a
decent frequency but nothing to write
home about and you're going to be
missing out on optimal hypertrophy
results someone could say for that
Friday workout they watch you do sets of
two to four reps at a six RP and they'd
be like is that stimulating growth
you're like nope you're like why don't
you do some growth stuff you're like
whereas that'll beat me up too much for
next Monday you can't have the best of
both worlds certainly not at the same
time