full stretch full stretch keep going
keep going press
good stuff oh
that's it you're done you're done you're
done
keep the chest open and go
can't open there you go much better much
better
last one slow extra fucking slow
big fucking pause wait for it
Go rap
dude hell yeah nobody said this will be
fun slow slow slow slow
up press press rack
fuck out of here you little tick-tocker
January you're getting well into your
Fitness game which is sweet I'm right
here alongside with you for that we have
just a quick couple of little tidbits to
talk to you about as far as maybe some
other stuff you want to be involved in
versus just buying the templates that we
have using the RP diet coach app and
watching YouTube for 100 free we have
four pay stuff that's just a little bit
of pay but gets you a ton of value this
what you're about to hear is exactly as
much sales pitch promoing as I am
capable of doing ethically the first
thing I'll say like I say in all of
these talks when I get a chance to sit
down you don't have to buy anything ever
you can continue to watch our YouTube
videos for free we love you all for it
click the like button every now and
again if you like something you don't
even know you just watch them it records
views we get paid off views it's amazing
there's no need to buy any of this stuff
but let me give you a little chat about
some of the benefits of this stuff
little upsell stuff and maybe you're
gonna be like oh that sounds nice but
it's not for me totally cool but if
you're like oh it sounds like something
I might want to try and maybe actually
can help me a lot that amazing give it
some thought I'll tell I'm saying so
here's the thing first
is YouTube is for sure free and always
will be we will continue to always put
out four to five YouTube videos like we
always have every single week high level
content that will never change every now
and again we promote the YouTube
membership which I'm about to start
promoting right now
a couple people just a couple of
oddballs in the in the caption will say
hey like you know like YouTube videos
should be free or whatever like yeah
absolutely we're never replacing our
content for free with paid content ever
and we just won't okay but if you want
that next level of content
the YouTube membership is where you can
get it and it's like there's a couple
membership tiers but it's basically like
five bucks a month and you get multiple
videos through that month usually at
least one a week
that are way more in depth and way more
nerdy than we would usually go on the
channel and I'm going to be completely
straight up with you guys why aren't
they on the channel because only a small
fraction of us on the channel are Mega
Ultra nerds the rest of you are like
super nerds and the rest are regular
nerds and the rest are just human beings
trying to learn something about exercise
and diet
for the ultra super psycho nerds if we
just put these crazy super in-depth
videos on the regular channel they just
kind of bomb they don't do all that well
they don't get a ton of views the world
doesn't get to see them as much and then
that's content we could have put out
that's a bit more of a general appeal
it's a bit more fun still a ton of
science still a ton of learning that we
could just reach out to for more people
so those videos that I have to make like
I'll have a list of videos to make and
Scott the video guy will be like hey man
like some of these are nerdy as hell
maybe we should throw them to the
members Channel because I just don't
know if they're going to do that well
and it pains me every time to hear this
because I'm a mega nerd I want to cut
you guys all the super nerdy stuff on
the regular channel we all know there's
only so many videos you can cram it
until people tune out I don't know about
you guys getting in the the notification
like twice a day coming up and hey
there's another crazy super in-depth 45
minute Nerd video by Mike because
there's only so much of that you're
gonna take but if you want that sort of
stuff and you have like five bucks a
month come join us in the member section
on YouTube those videos are a regular
thing and if you got that little you
should want to fill up your super nerd
cup we've got you full that's for the
YouTube membership I'm next here above
that is a team full ROM membership
subscription this is not YouTube this is
separate it's a forum that we run on
Facebook for the time being but
Facebook's actually pretty decent about
the Forum think it's a private Facebook
group
you pay money it's like 30 bucks a month
but if you get the year it's way cheaper
it turns into like 20 bucks a month
you pay money you get into this forum
when you get into the forum you get a
couple of things right away you get a
ton of detailed diet templates that you
can use right away you get crazy
discounts on pretty much all of our
piece products books and templates and
stuff and huge discounts you get free
copy of the hypertrophy book which is
itself like 35 bucks you get a free copy
of the diet book like all this good
stuff right for free and every six weeks
I personally designed with the help of
Jared feather a a multiple programs that
you can do we have four day week
programs five day week programs and six
day a week programs for whole body and
then we also have five and six day a
week programs for specialization like we
pick a couple muscles every six weeks we
really specialize them we repeat that
six weeks later with slightly different
set numbers you could get you working on
that same program so every 12 weeks we
recycle the priority entirely this means
it's basically like a train alongside
with us program a lot of people in The
Forum and we have like
700 people in The Forum they train on
that program so we get dedicated
programs this is basically you pay 30
bucks a month and you get the programs
completely included
you can use your own programs and to
that effect it's 50 off on the custom
Training templates which you can
generate your own programs 50 off is a
big deal it's 100 products it's 50 bucks
and you can build 18 weeks of training
for 50 bucks that's not bad but here's
the real kicker to The Forum
The Forum is a q a situation where you
post any question and other people
answer it including myself and Jared and
many others including travel for bright
super top tier expert if that's not
enough we have more you can put up any
videos you have of yourself training and
us and everyone else on the Forum is
going to give you technique and cue
feedback so you can put up videos every
week working on your Squat and we'll
tailor your squad to be better and
better and better over time this is
legit what happens and by the way the
form is organized in such a way that
there's like no dickish Behavior allowed
it's all jokes all good but like it's
only constructive criticism which is
really sweet so if you're really serious
about improving your lifts and your
Technique that's the place to be and
lastly both myself and Jared do weekly
lives where we do a collection for
questions any question you have let's
take six paragraphs to ask we put it
right in there and we answer it in depth
the average live every two weeks or
sorry every week my life takes me about
an hour and a half to two hours to get
through it's usually like 30 or 40
questions from people in The Forum we
will bash everything to the ground to
make sure everything is explained
and there questions are guaranteed to be
answered unlike the YouTube unlike
anything else if you ask a question in
the Forum we guarantee it's answered you
might have to tag us one more time or
bump up the thread we will get to it and
if you really want it answered for sure
for sure you ask it in the live and
we'll 100 get to it that Forum that live
component does a huge thing for me
because it can directly answer your
questions as much as possible and so can
everyone else in that Forum it's a
beautiful place to be great place for
learning if you're into some money if
you're walking around the street and
there's a sack of money you know holy
crap I could use this to get in the
Forum give that some thoughts so once
again YouTube we love you guys you don't
have to pay a fucking thing you never
will unless YouTube starts charging your
assumption like that that we can't
promise we'll always put out great
content a ton of it all the time but if
you want some extra nerdy content give
the member section a thought in YouTube
and if you want to take your nerdiness
and interaction to the next level and
really be almost coached Along by
everyone else who's into this kind of
stuff give some thought to joining team
for ROM we'll have all the links in the
description below like subscribe and uh
do something nice for someone this year
how about that you've been a bad person
we know you have just try smiling at
someone at the store go do that I'll see
you later