welcome to the house of hypertrophy Ryan
humerston recently purchased
electromography that's EMG equipment
naming it a game changer it seems he
plans to make a series of videos
evaluating the best exercises for each
muscle group using this EMG equipment
believing this is truly science based
many of his fans love the idea and are
highly anticipating future EMG videos
but as we'll dissect in this video the
prevailing scientific literature
indicates EMG has several flaws that
render it extremely Limited in inferring
the best exercises for hypertrophy I
would go so far as to say that any of
Ryan's conclusions from his EMG
equipment have a high probability of
just being plain wrong or at least
misleading first things first I never
actually planned to make videos on
anybody else's content this will
probably be the only exception I felt
this video had to be made as not only
are many of my subscribers sub to Ryan's
Channel but his triceps EMG video was
amongst the most watched by my Subs
viewers deserve to know just how limited
EMG is in reality before they go about
changing their own training based on
shoddy data this absolutely isn't a
personal attack on Ryan whatsoever
rather it's a scientifically Critical
examination of what he shares in his
recent videos
[Music]
EMG is said to measure muscle activation
not only by Ryan but by multiple
scientific researchers too the problem
as detailed in this 2017 article is this
isn't precisely true muscle activation
is when the force generating components
within muscle fibers are in motion
strapping electrodes to a muscle doesn't
record this so what does it record
remember the reason a muscle activates
in the first place is that it receives
electrical signals from the brain and
spinal cord EMG measures the strength of
these electrical nerve signals delivered
to the muscle the term for this is
neuromuscular excitation now
neuromuscular excitation comes before
muscle activation but there are some
steps between them meaning there isn't
always a one-to-one relationship between
neuromuscular excitation and muscle
activation fatigue Dynamic contractions
or fluctuating neural input can blur the
relationship between neuromuscular
excitation and muscle activation
foreign
measures neuromuscular excitation not
truly muscle activation but guess what
this is also somewhat of a lie as EMG
does not reliably measure neuromuscular
excitation a 2017 Italian study
wonderfully illustrates this these
researchers electrically stimulated the
tibialis anterior muscle of subjects at
a constant intensity at three different
foot angles because the researchers
electrically stimulated the muscle at a
constant intensity at all three foot
angles rather than the subjects
producing their own voluntary muscle
forces actual neuromuscular excitation
would have been the same at all three
foot angles if EMG reliably measured
neuromuscular excitation it should find
the same amplitude across the three
different foot angles but this did not
happen the EMG recording showed
different amplitudes at each three
different foot angles so this study
demonstrates even if actual
neuromuscular excitation is the same
simply changing angles can produce
different EMG recordings
this matters as if we're comparing EMG
recordings between exercises training
and muscle at subtly different angles we
can get different EMG recordings
unrelated to actual neuromuscular
excitation differences
a muscles recruitment strategy can also
influence the EMG recordings independent
of actual neuromuscular excitation
changes remember muscles contain many
many fibers as a fun fact it's estimated
the mere biceps contains anywhere from
172 000 to 418 000 muscle fibers these
muscle fibers are layered and even if
actual neuromuscular excitation is kept
the same a muscle that recruits fibers
from the deep to superficial level would
produce different EMG recordings to a
muscle that recruits fibers from The
Superficial to deep level this is
notable because if during an exercise we
see higher EMG recordings with one
muscle versus another muscle that muscle
may not be truly experiencing greater
neuromuscular excitation rather the
different EMG recordings could be down
to recruitment strategies
in the scientific literature EMG
recordings are consistently higher when
training with heavier loads versus
lighter loads even if repetitions are
performed to failure in both situations
this is a powerful argument against
emg's ability to infer muscle growth as
we know long-term research that actually
measures muscle growth consistently
finds both heavier and lighter loads are
similar for muscle growth where reps are
performed two or close to failure thus
When comparing EMG recordings between
exercises if one is technically heavier
loading it can produce higher EMG
recordings even though it might not
actually be more hypertrophic as a
potential example Ryan found that
compared to close grip push-ups dips
produced higher EMG signals from the
triceps heads I have a feeling this
might be because dips are technically
heavier loading versus close grip
push-ups if we compare the exercises
with reps performed too failure at their
long-term study design that measured
muscle both after triceps gains could be
similar between them as is the case When
comparing heavy and light load training
to failure
[Music]
our souls actually have elements in
their Force generating units that can
produce passive forces when stretched
and EMG does not measure any of these
passive forces as it only records
electrical stuff this is noteworthy as
the literature indicates passive tension
stimulates muscle growth for example a
new German study indicates that intense
static stretching of the calves produce
notable gastrocnemius growth matter of
fact the magnitudes of gastrocnemius
growth were similar to what's seen in
studies that train was seated and
standing calf raises furthermore
exercises training muscles in stretched
positions seem to be more powerful for
hypertrophy we thoroughly examine this
literature in our previous video a
strong reason for this is passive forces
at stretched muscle links augment their
active contractor forces thereby leading
to a more potent muscle building
stimulus so emgs is nothing to inform us
of these potentially critical passive
forces this might relate to another one
of Ryan's findings he stayed days
incline Coast poorly hit the long biceps
head and it hit the brachialis more yet
we know incline coals would train the
long head in a stretched position and
again emg's does not pick up on stretch
given that other evidence indicate
stretch in an exercise is favorable for
hypertrophy it's sensible to hypothesize
incline coals would indeed be great for
Long Head biceps gains
it's Crystal Clear to see EMG has
several flaws that preclude its
usefulness in comparing the muscle
growth value of different exercises
no there might be some situations in
which EMG may be potentially useful
comparing EMG recordings between two
exercises involving similar relative
loading and angles might not be that bad
for example comparing equivalently
loaded weighted push-ups to bench
presses with a similar range of motion
maybe an alright comparison with EMG
comparing EMG recordings before and
after a training program in the same
person may also be an alright thing to
do finally comparing EMG recordings on
the same exercise between different
individuals might potentially be an okay
way to assess muscle recruitment
differences between people though there
are some potential pitfalls with this
one specifically
in any event long-term research
comparing actual measures of muscle
growth after training with different
exercises is going to be the highest
quality data we have for inferring the
most favorable hypertrophy exercises
this is the data we commonly review at
the house of hypertrophy if you've made
it here I have a free ebook you might
like The Ultimate Guide to bench
pressing for strength and hypertrophy
with more than 100 scientific references
from technique to training variables to
comparisons and other fascinating
science we cover it all grab it through
the link in the description or comments
[Music]
foreign