your body is profoundly good at
resisting weight loss it has been
engineered by millions of years of
evolution to seek out tasty food and
keep your body weight level if you start
losing weight your body is like hey are
we dying giving people one cheat day per
week ends up many times not always many
times putting them in the cycle of
weight loss during the week misery and
then can't wait for that cheat day have
the cheat day feel like total by
the way get really bloated feel feel
like crap have trouble switching back
into the healthy diet on Monday or
Sunday or whatever and then a couple
days later you start feeling better
again you start losing weight again but
then you get really crazy because you w
that cheat meals coming up I recommend
no cheat meals for the entire duration
of 10 or 12 12 week diet just the good
stuff John Cena was talking about if you
do that you're setting yourself up much
more for Success than um man one cheat
day a week that'll a ton of people