one of the really cool things about
either increasing your load Andor reps
is it forces you to fuing try yeah 100
lb for 18 was something you could do
this week you do 105 for 18 it might be
really close to your limit or not kind
of two extreme scenarios there one is
like you hit your limit real quick hey
congratulations you were training hard
this whole time good for you but you
tested it now you know the other one is
you 10 100 for 18 reps 105 110 115 120
finally at 135 you hit 17 reps guess
what mother I got news for you you've
been at 10 reps in reserve your whole
 life and all of a sudden the
reason you haven't been progressing is
like oh I've never been training
remotely hard enough so that can fix
that problem big time that's why I
really like that kind of a
forward-looking progression formula yeah
there's feedback in the mix but you have
to challenge yourself in ways that are
programmatic that might not be your
preferred thing to do