my arms are throbbing they're like numb
the pump is almost gone it's just
numbness you guys that is not a good
sign this is bad news this is too
[Music]
much hey guys Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am a
professor of sport and exercise science
at Leman College in the Bronx and I've
bodybuilder competitive for some time
I'm not so good at it but I'm large and
muscular I guess I weigh about wow this
morning I weigh 243 lbs and uh I got a
DEX last week and it was 88.4% body fat
so that's not that bad but pales in
comparison to the demigod that is
Richard Piana but is that his really
full name not sure but it rolls off the
tongue so well speaking of tongues and
rolling and being well let's check out
training footage of Mr Rich Piana and
admire what is and was the greatest
physique of all times in some certain
sense where you count lots of oil as
good
physique hit it one of my deep dark
secrets nothing like a deep dark secret
which you share in your promotional
marketing let's find out what it is any
bets o hold on write in the comments
right now what you think his deep dark
secret was and I don't cheat and then
afterwards comment to yourself to see
how close you were a lot of people have
probably heard of this but um it's
basically an 8 hour arm workout that's
the secret you know I would call an 8h
hour work arm workout the opposite of a
hack a hack is like a shortcut you can
just do a little bit and get tons of
results Rich was like you know is there
a way I can do way too much to get
question mark
results let's do it 8 hours of arms it
says it consists of 16 mini workouts
every half
hour for 8 hours straight it doesn't
take a science scientist to logically
understand what I'm saying holy
 Yeah the more you put in the more
you get out so stoping making
excuses and it's made up of 16 mini
workouts every half an hour throughout
the day for 8 hours straight killing
your arms and yes it's 8 hours
long that's like a work day your grandpa
used to put on his Union hat in his
uniform and time car in eight hours you
know doing productive things with his
arms like building machinery or Staffing
an office or helping people become
healthier at a hospital but there are
tears of the importance of things we do
in society and at the very top tier
unequivocally is to try to make your
arms as big as humanly possible using
the RP hypertrophy
app training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same hey you Harry Potter that's right
sorry I got you wrong you look like
Harry Potter CU you got no goddamn arms
how many hours a day would you trade
away of your pathetic pointless small
armed life in order to get bigger arms
what what's that I hear you're ready for
a full Grandpa Union style work day of 8
hours well the card Mr Rich Piana is the
factory Foreman let's get to work and
you're going to make 16
shakes I thought I thought this was like
a meme why is an 8 Hour arm workout bad
I'll be very specific with you there are
at least two reasons reason one is if
you're training with any relatively
sufficient intensity 8 hours of work on
your arms is decently likely to cause
rapd myis which is an instant breakdown
of the muscles you do not get back it
would take you months to rebuild that
muscle because it's just destroyed
basically your body damages its own
muscle so much that it makes a go no go
decision I'm like is this salvageable
it's like if if you've got an Evac plane
after your special ops mission but the
thing has like 20 holes in it you're
like uh helicopter come get us like what
do you want to do with the plane like
we're just going to leave the plane here
that's what your body can do with
muscles you damage sufficiently and by
leave them here that means eject them
into the blood blood stream where they
up your blood vessels and then they go
up your kidneys and then you pee an
interesting shade of Blackish red that's
fun to see come out your dick now if
that's after a fun night out Scot the
video guy style it's just a cost doing
business but if you did it to yourself
with an AR arm workout you're actually
costing yourself muscle now I must say
rabdo is unlikely because most of the
people trying this workout aren't going
to be training that hard and just get
tired and quit but even if you train
very very hard not quite rabdo hard it
has been shown through the scientific
literature and it makes perfect sense
that if you damage your muscles enough
the resources used to heal them and make
them bigger are now just poured into
healing them because the damage is so
extreme you kind of can't afford to
improve them it's like you have $20,000
on a Home Improvement fund your you know
top of your porch falls off it's only
$3,000 use the other 17 to make the
house better but if a tornado comes
through your house and rips the
into pieces you ain't upgrading
you're just going to get some money
maybe to build back the house and maybe
not even this much work in one day for a
single muscle group is excessive it
probably not result in gains now it look
like gains because you'll blow the hell
up from acute inflammation that results
from the immune system being like the
happen to your triceps you're like that
did an 8ar arm workor out it's
like is wrong with you kid get in here
fellas fix all this break it down again
build it back up and you're like do do
it miss your immune system yes do do I
get get any more muscle from this no
mother you out of your mind you're lucky
you're still alive you idiot who the who
hell is this Rich Pana person then
you're like up up up up immune system
I've had enough God is who you speak to
and you will kneel when you speak of God
so the immune system gets put back in
its place but that doesn't mean you're
growing any muscle the high probability
here is you will not grow muscle because
of those two Pathways one you either get
rabbone and that gets up or two you just
do so much damage that even though you
don't have rabo you still haven't grown
any muscle however that's probably not
going to happen to you option three is
how you're going to get screwed option
three is you auto adjust to doing such
an easy workout every 30 minutes that
you survive you don't get crazy sore
excessively or whatever you end up
actually growing some decent muscle but
if I told you you could have done the
same thing in one or two workouts just
by going harder versus spreading it over
eight hours would you hate me for it
because that's how reality works all
right here we are the first workout of
the day of this 8 Hour arm workout
workout one is four sets of 10 of Skull
Crusher and four sets of 10 barbell curl
start with the hardcore heavy Basics I
love it rich my man shooting for 10 reps
here so uh let's get going and get this
started good technique good range of
motion
rich I like
[Music]
it is he super setting
maybe he
is other than the bit of a rush on the
Ecentric this is also quite good
technique for curls I'm not hating this
is good
stuff yeah you guys see how he slows
down to struggle on the concentric but
as soon as he hits that top position he
just kind of lowers it quickly don't do
that you got all the way up there and
the Ecentric phase the lowering phase is
actually very muscle growth promoting so
what you want to do is you you don't
have to go super slow but control on the
way down be at 1 second of control or be
at two to three seconds of control he's
letting it slip a little bit you want
the Ecentric phase that is bonus points
for you and if you have to use less
weight so be it you're there to do a job
not to heave weights around like an
idiot all right here we go workout
number two with the dumbbells that was
quick workout two four sets of 15 reps
single arm dumbbell extension four sets
of 15 reps dumbell hammer curls this is
good it's variation so we're hitting the
triceps from a different angle which
means the probability of a high degree
of inflammation happening at any one
point in the triceps reduces which means
injury and uh insanely local
overreaching where you get probabilities
of rabdo goes down I also like that the
repetition range has come up meaning
you're using uh less absolute load which
means that because you're tired from the
four sets of 10 you wouldn't be able to
use heavyweight as productively but when
you're tired from heavy usually that
means you can go light and go hard at
light the opposite isn't true if you do
light first heavy second light Cooks you
and you can't really go Heavy after that
so this is good exercise order credit
weird is due rich is a person that knew
some things knew some things that as far
as I'm willing to go for now dumbbell
weights a little bit lighter so we're
doing a little bit higher reps so we're
shooting for 15 reps
here oh I thought he was going to do the
dumbbell extensions overhead but he did
not so it's really the same movement
except with dumbbells I take back my
earlier compliments and replace them
with
h
[Music]
yeah he's rushing the Ecentric guys you
can tell that it's a a result of
becoming
overfocused on completing the lift which
most of us consider completing lift as a
completion of the lockout after the
concentric phase we get in there quick
and then and then quick and then uh but
that uh on the way back down that
Ecentric phase it grows a lot of muscle
and it's good to keep going and as a
matter of fact if you do this wrong
enough you may develop cobwebs on your
elbows which is what Rich Piana has very
sad though I will say if in a
hypothetical World in which I'm single
and a comes into party with a
cobweb tattoo anywhere goth chicks front
of line all other women no need to stay
here anymore goth chicks hello I
mean
whatever all right hammer
[Music]
curls he's doing them seated which I
like because the least amount of
standing you can do in an eight our arm
workout is probably a good idea save the
energy those he did okay I will say
whatever Rich had uh I was going to say
naturally but that ship sailed into a
dam
somewhere uh whatever Rich had is a
combination of genetics the decade plus
decades he spent
training uh the drug use of course and
the Synthol um I would say his arms are
awesome looking look look at that tricep
hang I know it's not all him but uh it's
a sweet look big arms are never
wrong all right two down 14 to go it's
right after the workout you got to get
that Shak in there as soon as possible
now I'm ready to rest till my next
workout all right I wonder how long
these take you know eight sets of
15 Scot the video that might take me a
30
minutes I would just be doing workouts
the entire day
that starting to burn starting to ache
wait Scott is is he doing the same
movements again yeah correct this is
like the next one or one of the next
ones so it just kind of repeats with the
same weight correct
ha
Logic No thank
you all right here we are at the halfway
point and let me tell you it's starting
to kick in I'm starting to feel it but
you know got to keep pushing you got to
keep pushing fellas that's how success
is made when you pick an idea that's
really stupid just keep sticking to it
no matter what your body tells you four
more hours loving it the camera guy is
like can I take some time off to kill
myself another hint is uh bring
different flavored shakes I brought all
the same
flavor getting a little sick of it
that's the important thing that'll keep
you upright dur during eight hours dude
I'm going to quit your training partner
is like try the strawberry mango shake
you're like damn damn the is good
all right I'll
stay well we're 3/4 of the way through
so uh I'm really starting to feel it
starting to kick in tenant joints are
starting to get sore but you know I got
to keep pushing it got to get through
this let me tell you guys a fun secret
when your joints start to become acutely
sore during a single workout out not a
messa cycle your workouts too long your
joints generally should feel better the
whole workout because they should be
more warmed up more pliable and because
of the fight ORF flight response that
occurs with training and all the
hormonal secretion your pain perception
should actually decrease significantly
there's an analgesic anti-pain effect
that training has if you have managed to
surmount that effect with doing enough
damage to your joints acutely that they
start hurting more and more you got to
go home
take a break rethink your
life don't stay in the gym for eight
hours people don't do it got to put that
extra inch on whatever it takes here we
go the term whatever it takes is dumb
because what if I told you that if you
give up all of the years of your life
except for the next year would rewarding
you with 22in arms would you take it you
said whatever it takes right nobody ever
means that it's a cool slogan it does
sell t-shirts elbows are hurting a
little bit I got to be honest damn his
arms are big holy you know what's
not going to make your arms big in the
long term hurting your elbows every
workout Rich there's so much it's not
even the pump is almost gone it's just
numbness you guys that is not a good
sign generally speaking you want to
leave the gym with kind of the maximum
pump if you're ever in your training and
you peak in a pump and then you continue
to train that same muscle very hard and
the pump goes down I'm inclined to
believe on heris alone that that is not
a good thing we want to leave on a high
note not on the low negative note where
you're just your joints hurt you don't
even have pump anymore that to me seems
counterproductive all right that was the
8r arm workout let's see what's next uh
what I'm training today is I'm going to
hit chest I'm going to hit a chest
workout cool chest haven't seen a whole
lot of him doing chest let's see how
that works he's got three plates on a
barbell behind him this is curious and
I'm going to blast this I'm going
to kill it it's going to be the most
insane workout you've ever seen so I'm
going to do 285 for 10 sets to failure
the 100% Club bench press is 10 sets of
your body weight to failure I guess just
by doing it you get into the club most
clubs like the 1000b club and the squat
bench and deadlift in high school you
actually have to successfully get to
1,000 PBS in your total but uh this you
just do 10 sets of your body weight to
failure in the bench press and I guess
that makes you
100%
of something that's for sure but
basically my first exercise today is
going to be Smith machine incline
presses what I thought he said
bench but it's Smith machine incline
press 100 rep drop
set I don't understand what's going on
are we no longer doing the 100% Club
that's just something you were supposed
to do on your own today I will review
Rich doing a Smith machine incline 100
rep drop set which means use a weight
you can push for 10 reps start dropping
weight from there until you've done 100
reps then my second exercise is going to
be that 100% Club bench press
oh oh after that I'm going to be
destroyed but I'm not stopping I'm going
to keep going get the out of here I'm
going to go to Cable flies oh
my Scott this is a joke right four to
five pyramid up in weight so that as you
get more tired you can go heavier
backwards nonsense try reverse
pyramiding instead and it says don't do
less than 10 reps per set which is
probably good advice get some good work
in there at this point your pecs are
just going to be kind of a glomeration
of functionless noodles that only
receive damage and give none of it just
like I like to end the sessions with my
450 lb dominatrix I am but a vessel for
her desire fellas what just I'm kidding
of course that's not oh Cynthia is her
name she's really good at her
job all right if this is fun so far and
you guys want to see extra bonus content
that's triple xx rated and even more X's
than that then our members area has an
extra super long version video and all
the other videos like this thing we do
so give it a click probably do four to
five sets there pyramiding the weight up
the heaviest weight I can do with
perfectly strict form we'll see mother
and then I'm going to go to Old School
dips One does not simply do this you
guys this is bad news for most people
this is too much your body has a finite
recovery and adaptation capability this
is way out there for almost everyone you
got to just be real weak to survive this
and or maybe most of your muscles are no
longer made of muscles with Synthol so
they just don't take a whole lot of
damage IO so uh that's about it I'm
ready to hit it kill it destroy it let's
do
this good technique rich I don't hate it
at all credit where it is
due wonderful no critiques smooth full
range of motion looks like the plates
are coming off
[Music]
here and now we do bench
press very good technique here as
well good stuff look on the plus side I
think Rich looks great I think his
technique on the lifts is something I
would be very comfortable with most of
the people in the gym copying it's a
very good technique could he control the
Centrics a little better yes but that's
a very minor point in the grand scheme
of things the rest of it is the dumbest
 I've ever heard in my life way too
much take all that volume spread it
through three or four weekly workouts
you'll have more energy you won't be
taxing your recovery too much everything
will be better and you can actually go
back to school and back to work because
you won't need eight hours to work out
with but what do I know I don't have
tattoos in my face and thus my
credibility is instantly
tarnished guys thank you so much for
joining all love and respect get in the
comments complain a little bit shout a
little bit make a move post a gift see
you next time got to give a rating oh
 this one gets a rich piano out of
10 see you next time it doesn't need to
be a real rating it just sorry sorry
sorry I'll give another one ready I give
this rating an eight hour workout out of
question mark see you next
time all right that was fun um if you
guys want for the fun to continue
YouTube thinks this video right here
will be right up your Island give it a
click