[Music]
hey folks dr. marcantel here for
Renaissance period ization RP diet book
2.0 grand tour if you're interested in
any of stuff by the way right in the
description below will be a link to
purchase the Renaissance diet book 2.0
amazing book I may have written parts of
it who knows I don't remember a thing
nowadays
chapter 15 gut health dr. Gabrielle fund
ara wrote this chapter she's our super
super expert on gut health here's the
deal just gonna summarize this chapter a
little bit way more info and tons of
links to the research in the chapter
itself all concerning the gut microbiome
just a couple factoids first up gut
microbiome and appetite there's been a
lot of speculation and there's almost
certainly some effects and yes your gut
microbiome probably has effect on your
appetite in some sense as it can
increase it or in some situations and
some sense some situations that can
decrease it but the literature is far
too nascent for us to be able to tell
which way it goes so for the next year
or two for sure be very wary of stuff
you see especially like popular
newspaper articles about this sort of
thing newspaper I'm showing my age right
if you read articles online and it says
you know gut health this and that and
appetite it's gonna be one or two
studies on that for the next couple of
years and as there's four or five six
seven studies we can probably start to
understand how that looks so for now we
can't give any recommendations on how
that works to put this in perspective it
could be that if you're in dysbiosis
which means them not-so-great situation
and gut health sometimes that could
actually lower your cause you lose
weight right so it's not really clear
that your gut health is like if you just
check it off the list you're gonna start
losing fat and stuff that might be the
other way around so we have yet to see
next up metabolism it's very likely that
certain kinds of gut microbiomes over
represented or underrepresented can
influence the chances of obesity this
has been shown on animals to some very
limited extent we're still awaiting good
large sample size human trials but
exactly how pronounced this effect is
exactly how it works
and what we can do about it so again
very tentative this is a big theme in
this chapter which I'll mention towards
the closing in this video that a lot of
this very very tentative so anyone
selling you you know if this is exactly
how it works for the next probably one
or two years it might be off to a little
bit of a rocky start claiming a little
bit more than we currently know what
about how does diet affect the gut
microbiome here we know a little bit
more fiber is almost certainly good for
the gut microbiome for health in general
right
Reggie's fruits whole grains are almost
always recommended in most cases they
improve the gut microbiome among other
things they yours are very very
excellent for your health probably high
saturated fats are not the best idea
they tend to seem to increase the kinds
of gut bacteria that might not be the
best for your health a little bit more
research needed on that but that's the
way it's starting to look at it the
evidence is pretty solid and some people
have said that you know low carb eating
is good for God health that's probably
not the case as a matter of fact if we
had to take a shot in the dark right now
from leadership we do have low carb is
probably worse for your gut microbiota
that's not for sure but that's the way
it's looking so keep that in mind
definitely don't fall for any sort of
quick fix well if your gut microbes are
off you should drop your carbs it's if
anything it's the other way around
increase your fiber veggies fruits so on
and so forth next up artificial
sweeteners honestly the jury's still out
we've been a couple of studies and
artificial sweeteners that say they
caused some degree of dysbiosis so gut
bacteria being out of balance and
someone has shown that this dysbiosis
when performed in animals actually
results in body fat gain from our
official sweeteners very very concerning
the problem is all the directs that is
artificial sweeteners for weeks and
weeks and months at a time
show no body fat gain right and that be
something that's just very mysterious
like if it was a very straightforward
fact we could just write that off the
list and be like sweet we understand it
but when lake you know 10 20 30 trials
show that people just don't gain fat
when they use out of here's no
sweeteners versus like water for example
like Diet Coke versus water it just it's
you know if the dysbiosis really is
affecting body fat game it must be
occurring in some really interesting way
another thing they've shown is a lot of
the effects of artificial sweeteners and
got microbiota a probably transient does
just they don't happen for a very long
time so if you increase your official
sweetener some gut microbiomes change
for a little
they might go back to normal if you
decrease them they may really go back to
normal pretty quickly so we need more
research in this area we already know
that out of all the artificial
sweeteners so far tested sucralose seems
to be the one that interferes the least
we've got microbiome so if you're really
sort of worried about it but you still
want to do artificial sweeteners which
is probably totally fine might want to
go a little bit more for sucralose
probiotics probiotics is basically is
when you take in sort of live cultures
of bacteria on some way or another and
they're supposed to be very good for
your health a thing is like in theory
they could work and we know that we also
need relatively large doses way larger
than most commercial preparations have
in the literature and there's in which
the probiotics actually work there
they're given a substantial ostrich or
larger doses than most commercial
products sell but even there it's not
clear that they help in the medium to
long term sometimes they can alter
bacterial ratios for a while then it
goes back to normal we honestly don't
know yet so probiotics might be
something that we find either works
really well in the future or find ways
to make it work really well but for now
if you're like super hopeful that
there's just probiotics they'll just fix
it right up it's just not clear if
that's the case there's some reason to
be skeptical second to last exercise
pretty much every single study they've
done shows that a regular level of
pretty hard exercise is just good for it
about microbiome right it just makes it
seem to be healthier and function more
effectively in every way measured so if
you really worried about your gut
microbiomes
you had better be exercising right
because that seems to be almost a
panacea for a lot of things really
and it got microbiome seems to be no
exception lastly before we close out the
video summary of this chapter and again
if you're super interested about any of
this by all means check out the book
it's got way more details here's the
deal
sure thing conclusions my this is how
they got microbiome work so you got to
take this supplement you got to eat this
you got to eat that you must do this
this is exactly how it works we just
don't have enough literature on that
right now and we probably won't for the
next several years now it'll get better
over the next several years will develop
more solid conclusions but for the next
year so this video is being recorded
sort of really close
to New Year's 2019 until 2020 plus
probably 2021 or something like that
I just wouldn't put a ton of stock into
real definitive statements about got
bacteria so if you hear someone be like
we found the solution to improving your
gut microbiome ooh that sounds like it's
probably some BS and good news a bunch
of companies and other folks you know
gurus and stuff have already claimed
they had gut bacteria solutions when
they first learned about gut bacteria in
two years ago it was BS now it'll
probably be s within the next year but
over the next three or four years we're
gonna start to have some pretty good
tentative recommendations will solidify
and we'll learn a lot more don't worry
we'll update the book time to reflect
that thanks for tuning in see you guys
for the next chapter summary
[Music]