hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization here's your weekly tip
don't add sets if you can't focus on
them
what the hell does that mean well check
this out are you doing too many sets per
session such that you're doing more work
but you're not getting any more marginal
gain
not something you'd want to do
here's the reality you get your biggest
and strongest from what we can call high
quality sets especially on the size end
of the spectrum
these sets have a couple of check marks
that have to occur for them to be
counted your technique on the sets has
to be very good
the amount of drive neural drive you're
pushing into the sets has to be high
you're not mailing it in you're you're
there for it
and ideally the mind muscle connection
has to be high as well so if you get off
of a set of dips and someone's like feel
your lower packs you're like bro i feel
it everywhere and yes
versus some you get off of a set of dips
and your training pattern is like lower
packs you're like i don't i don't know
i just went up and down and maybe not
even that much i have no idea what's
going on
the thing is
if you're just going through the motions
and this is of course a spectrum
variable the less technique you are
sticking to the less neural drive you're
providing the less mind muscle
connection that's occurring marginally
the
less growth percent occurs
but fatigue still accumulates and the
more fatigue you have and less growth
you have per sets the more junky that
volume is
your first set versus your second set
your second set adds a lot of growth to
that process
your sixth set versus your fifth set
if you're sufficiently tired where your
technique is not great your neural drive
is like
you're like just get the fuck out of
here i said what is it i have to do 10
i'll just do 10 and i'll leave and your
mind muscle connections whatever because
you're just trying to survive
that sixth that just doesn't give you a
ton of growth maybe not at all and the
amount of fatigue gives you versus
amount of growth is wildly off balance
it does nothing good for your
programming
for many people not all there are
certainly exceptions and many of you
will notify us in the comments no less
more than 10 sets in a single muscle
group per session
or in a single session for all muscle
groups included much more than 20 sets
now plenty of people can do 30 and
that's totally cool but for a lot of
people anything after 20 sets per
session especially at a high level
especially if they're struggling to
bring up a muscle group or their whole
body
is just so much that it tips over that
rough area of what we call for sure junk
volume and there are better ways to
train
so what are the better ways well if you
ever hit this point where in a workout
consistently over a few weeks i do it
anytime i do over eight sets of quads
the last two sets is three sets or four
sets but just nonsense okay i'm not even
lifting a lot of weight i'm so tired i
have no idea what fuck i am technique
blows neural drive sucks mind muscle i
don't even know where my quads are
if that's the case
you can add more sessions do not try to
cram in more and more sets to one
session people say yeah man i'm doing
this workout three times a week
i'm an advanced lifter like you're an
advanced worker lifter you work three
times a week how the fuck does that work
well i do 40 sets per session like huh
so the first 20 are good what the fuck
are the last 20 all right fine the
second the third 10 sets i believe
they're still pretty good you're telling
me working set number 31 32 33 34 etc
those are good high quality say hey
maybe but probably not so if you train
three times a week and you're getting up
to the point where you're like dude this
is a ton of junk volume towards the end
of the year at the gym for three hours
at a time
go to four times a week
four times a week now you're here for
two hours at a time instead of three now
all the sets you do are much higher
quality because you're more rested for
them their technique is better the drive
is better the mind muscle connection is
better and you're growing more plain and
simple if you can't add any more
sessions say look i have a fucking day
job i have kids i'm not like you doctor
mike collecting lamborghinis uh how the
fuck do i actually get progress if i can
only train three or four days a week and
i can't add a bunch of sets and i'm
reaching this sort of junk volume limit
well here you can just try altering of
the priority focus so for example just
an example
you can do upper body first
okay in every single session three days
a week upper body first for two months
straight maybe two whole mesocycles or
one whole long mesocycle
and your lower body is trained last and
just with a few sets and not very hard
so the lower body just maintains no
lower body growth maintenance for lower
body growth for upper body two months
later three months later four months
later whatever you rotate lower body
goes first all the time upper body last
upper body only maintains because you
just don't train it that hard because
you know you can't
lower body you train first you fucking
cram it in and your lower body makes
gains
so some months your upper body is
maintenance lower body is going up and
in other months
your lower body is maintenance upper
body's going up and just like that over
time everything gets jacked you just
have to pick when
essentially know your limits and the
most important thing is
you are in the gym for high quality
high quality is the most likely to grow
muscle not going through the motions so
if you have a really good technique on
your sets if your neural drive is really
high and your mind muscle connection is
super high the only thing you have to
worry on the other end is nutrition and
recovery because you're fucking driving
it in you're gonna get growth if your
nutrition recovery are good and you're
not at your genetic ceiling or something
however
nutrition recovery genetics blah blah if
your technique sucks if your neural
drive sucks if your mind muscle
connection is off you're going to be
getting a small fraction of what you
could be so focus on quality first and
then worry about quantity
folks that's enough of me blabbing see
you next week
you