for a long time rest time
recommendations for muscle growth were
made based on the post-exercise
increases in hormones that you saw some
of these hormones like growth hormone or
testosterone have been linked to
anabolism and muscle growth since the
biggest increases in post-exercise
hormones were seen with short rest
periods the recommendation to rest for
less than a minute between sets was
often made however a systematic review
from 2017 by gerdrick and colleagues
found that actually resting for less
than one minute in trading participants
appeared to decrease muscle hypertrophy
shorter rest times may actually give
your body less time to get rid of some
of the metabolites that you may be
producing during exercise however
metabolite production is also tightly
linked to overall workload and overall
workload tends to be maximized when you
take relatively longer rest durations
between sets in other words it seems
like the rest period you take between
sets does mostly influence hypertrophy
through how it impacts overall
performance and the overall workload
that you can accumulate during a given
session