you need to bulk to make gains nah
that's not true you can absolutely make
great gains while just being at
maintenance and in fact you might even
lose some fat in the process a recent
study by hm and colleagues compared
three groups one group just maintained
their body weight a second group was in
a 5% calor Surplus above maintenance and
finally the third group was in a 15%
energy Surplus all groups lifted
consistently and they measured a variety
of hypertrophy and strength outcomes
what did they find even trained lifters
in this case they could bench and squat
com above their own body weights still
make gains in strength and size while
maintaining body weight additionally
being in a surplus only made a
relatively small Improvement on gains in
muscle size or in strength but when
might this not be the case if you're
very lean say about 8% body fat for a
male you probably won't make many games
then additionally if you're someone
who's concerned with maximizing your
hypertrophy or maximizing your strength
gains bulking will probably improve your
results slightly however for most people
you can still make great gains just
being at
maintenance