what are the best exercises for tricep
muscle growth according to the science
well to understand the answer to that we
first need to understand the anatomy of
the
triceps welcome back Dr M wolf wolf
coaching you know the deal today we're
talking triceps and exercises here's the
deal triceps means three heads and
therefore there are three heads in the
triceps Anatomy one1 there's the long
head of the triceps there's the lateral
head of the triceps and there's the
medial head of the triceps as far as
there roles within exercises goes their
main role is elbow extension however the
long head of the triceps also crosses at
the shoulder which allows it to perform
shoulder extension for context elbow
extension looks something like a push
down or a skull crusher and shoulder
extension looks exactly like a pullover
so what are the implications of this
Anatomy well first if we want to
lengthen the triceps overall we want to
be doing the opposite of elbow extension
we want to flex the elbow fully number
two if if we also want to lengthen the
long head even more we would also want
to perform the opposite of shoulder
extension which is Sol flection number
two if we also want to lengthen the long
head of the triceps even more we want to
perform the opposite of its role AKA
from shoulder extension to shoulder
flexion so we want to flex the shoulder
and flex the elbow and that would
maximally lengthen the long head of the
triceps another implication is that
because specifically the long head of
the triceps is a biarticular muscle
meaning it crosses both the elbow and
the shoulder joint we don't want to pick
exercises where it's being lengthened at
one joint or being shortened at another
joint the reason I say that is because
we have evidence that b articular
muscles that are being shortened at one
joint while being lengthened at another
joint during an exercise that exercise
usually doesn't cause much growth this
is the case for the hamstrings during
the squat or for the rectus foror during
the squat and so what we want to avoid
is an exercise for a long head where
it's not either performing both of its
functions at once like for example a
dumbbell skull over where it's doing
both shoulder extension and elbow
extensions at the same time where it's
being shortened at both joints and
lengthened at both joints at the same
time or an exercise where it's only
performing one of those functions in
isolation an exercise where it lengthens
at one joint and shortens at the other
just not as good for hypertrophy it
seems and so exercises like the JM press
where you're simultaneously flexing the
shoulder but extending the elbow AKA
lengthening the long head at the
shoulder while shortening it at the
elbow on the concentric that's not going
to be a great option for L head
hypertrophy now I hear you saying okay
Milo talking all this science stuff and
tell me about Anatomy now I know about
the anatomy of the triceps and I know
that we want to train the triceps
through elbow extension and through
potentially shoulder extension and
that's all well and good but I know of a
lot of exercises that do that which one
should I pick not so fast let me give
you a list of criteria to grade
exercises by to tell you how effective
they are for muscle hypertrophy here's
what they are first you want to make
sure that the exercise you're using is
at least reasonably stable you don't
need to go to the extremes with this but
if an exercise is wildly unstable like
for example you doing overhead
extensions on a bosu ball or something
that wouldn't be ideal for growth
there's been some evidence that it
reduces Force production for example and
we want to maximize Force production for
aery next whatever exercise you do pick
and this is informed by Anatomy should
be targeting the function of the muscle
or at least one of its functions in this
case that would be elbow extension or it
would be shoulder extension a good
tricep exercise should be Li Ed by
tricep strength not by anything else and
so certain exercises like for example
the overhead press or most compound
exercises really may not be ideal for
tricep development another criteria
pretty important one by which to gauge
whether an exercise is good for
hypertrophy is how stretch friendly it
is let me break down for you what that
means again this is the area of my PhD
as you all know there's three components
one does it put the target muscle into a
lengthened or stretch position if so
that's good for growth keep it going
number two in terms of resistance curve
does it place the target muscle in a
position where it has to produce force
in that lengthen position if so again
double thumbs up number three is the
exercise lengthen partial friendly one
of the things we've looked at in the
literature as a means to see what range
of motions best for hypertrophy is the
idea of a length and partial we're
essentially doing half reps in the
lengthen position and so across five
studies where we've compared a lengthen
partial or about half reps in that
length position position to a full range
of motion in four of these studies we
found better hypertrophy following
length and partials and so if we want to
maximize hypertrophy we probably want to
pick exercises where we can safely
perform lengthen partials as an
alternative to full range of motion to
maximize hypertrophy the final criteria
is an exercise where you sit down versus
you stand up generally an exercise where
you sit down is going to be slightly
better by some margin because you're
removing the work that non- tricep
muscle groups have have to do to
stabilize You by removing this work
performed by other muscle groups you
might be slightly reducing the fatigue
that you incur and thus be able to do
more tricep traing overall and get
bigger meteor horseshoe triceps a couple
of bonus points for exercise selection
that may or may not apply depending on
your situation the first one is how time
efficient that exercise is certain
exercises may be more time efficient
than others for example stack loaded
machines dumbbell exercises or cable
exercises are typically the most time
efficient because they don't require you
to set up a barbell load it up and get
started right that takes a while and so
if you're someone who doesn't have much
time to train you should be picking the
exercises where in a given amount of
time you can do the most hard sets with
all us being equal because that will
provide you with more stimulus the
second bonus component would be microl
loadability or essentially how small of
an increment can you change the weight
by something like a barbell typically
wins out over exercises like cable
exercises or dumbbell exercises on the
mic micr loadability component an
exercise being more microl loadable
simply makes it easier to progress week
to week in that exercise however the
reason that this isn't a major component
of exercise selection and what makes an
exercise good is because you could
simply be doing something called a
double progression instead where instead
of trying to add weight week to week
because the jump is so large you would
simply add reps and add reps and add
reps until eventually you feel
comfortable in adding weight now I hear
you saying all right big science man big
62230 pound freak I hear you talking but
all this Anatomy stuff all this science
around exercise selection what does it
help me if you're not going to give me
the best exercise without further Ado
let me do just that here's what I think
is the single best exercise for tricep
development I think the single best
exercise for tricep development is the
cable overhead extension whether you do
it seated or standing seated is probably
slightly better but takes more equipment
so it's up to you but generally a cable
overhead extension in my experience is
the best one tricep exercise and in fact
the overhead extension has been studied
in two separate studies now and directly
compared against the push down exercise
I'm talking about a study by stasak and
colleagues and a study by my mayo and
colleagues their methods were reasonably
comparable one of these studies found no
difference in hypertrophy between the
pushdown exercise and the cable overhead
extension so you might think eh why
would I do cable overhead extensions
then but the second study has found a
benefit in terms of tricep hypertrophy
for the cable overhead extension and
overall the data does support the use of
longer muscle length training in your
training for hypertrophy and here's how
this applies to your tricep training by
having an overhead position your arm
overhead the lateral medial head are
getting the same stimulus as they
usually would right because they only
extend the elbow and so whether your arm
is overhead or by your side really
doesn't matter as far as muscle length
and thus growth stimulus that they get
from different exercises however by
having your shoulder overhead the one
head of the triceps that does cross the
shoulder which is a long head that one
is being more lengthened than it would
be during something like a push down and
therefore you're probably going to see
more growth by doing something like an
overhead extension versus something like
a push down and indeed as I said the
study by Mayo showed more hypertrophy
following overhead extensions versus
push Downs now you might be asking why
the cable overhead extension over
something like a dumbbell overhead
extension or a barbell overhead
extension you might also be asking why
the single arm variant why not both arms
at the same time let me answer both of
those questions right now why do I
cables well I think with cables you can
typically get deeper than with a
dumbbell for sure with a dumbbell often
times the sheer size of the dumbbell I'm
sure you'll be doing these with 100 kg
or more the sheer size of the dumbbell
can get in the way of getting a full
stretch on the triceps the dumbbell will
get in the way of your back before you
can get a full stretch and your triceps
get all the way down with a barbell on
the other hand most people in my
experience struggle to get as deep as
they would with a cable simply because
the position isn't very comfortable
likewise the reason I recommend doing
the single r over doing both arms at the
same time is because usually this just
affords you a little bit more
flexibility with your positioning
however if you want to do a barbell or
if you want to do both arms at the same
time be my guest but overhead extensions
in general are probably your single best
bet for tricep hypertrophy of the medial
lateral and long head of the triceps
let's review the criteria first the
triceps will definitely be the limiting
factor in an overhead extension there's
simply not any other major muscle groups
that contribute towards elbow extension
and so the triceps if you're going into
failure will be pretty close to or at
failure it's also a pretty stable
exercise stable enough for our purposes
anyways if you want to make it more
stable consider sitting down or
something like that it's also very
stretch friendly right first it's very
length and partial friendly you can
simply end the rep whenever your hand or
the cable reaches just above your head
or your elbow reaches about a 90° angle
it puts plenty of tension in that bottom
position on the triceps and finally by
having the arm overhead you are
lengthening the triceps as much as
possible and finally by targeting elbow
extension which as I mentioned earlier
is the main function of the triceps this
does a great job now I hear you saying
Milo I don't just want to do overhead
extensions in my trading what are you
crazy first of all maybe secondly I
would say honestly if you did 50 to 75%
or so of your volume as overhead
extensions for your triceps I wouldn't
bat an ey and I think that might be the
best approach however for some variation
whether it's for enjoyment or for
potentially rounding out your excise
selection I think that Skull Crushers
are generally a better idea versus
something like a push down for the same
principle I just mentioned the more
flexed your arm is the longer the length
of the long head and so I think both
Skull Crushers or skull overs where you
actually perform both of the functions
of the long head by doing both shoulder
extension and elbow extension at the
same time are good Alternatives or
add-ons to your overhead extensions
specifically I would urge you to
consider length and partials on Skull
Crushers as well by simply doing half
the rep in the lengthen position and
we've actually looked at this in a study
by goto and colleagues you may get more
hypertrophy in comparing a somewhat
lengthened partial they weren't just
going from a full stretch to halfway up
but they were somewhat more in lengthen
side of things to a 4 in of motion
School Crusher they found more
hypertrophy when simply doing the
lengthen portion alternatively if you
wanted to work in some compound
exercises specifically for your triceps
I think things like push-ups or dips are
fine as I mentioned earlier I don't
think compounds are the best option for
overall tricep hypertrophy because
you're lengthening the long head at one
joint while shortening it at the other
as I mentioned not great however for the
lateral and medial head of the triceps
compounds are just fine and some
compounds can actually lead to pretty
long muscle lengths for the lateral
medial head there is still a concern of
hey is my tricep actually going to give
out first or my chest give out first or
FR else but the push-up with a deficit
especially and the dip are great options
for fully lengthening the medial and
lateral head of the triceps and decent
options for hypertrophy not the best but
decent as a final takeaway generally
consider this the more flexed your
shoulder is is for tricep isolation
exercises overall likely the better
specifically for a long head and thus
for overall hypertrophy so an overhead
extension will be slightly better for
hypertrophy than something like a skull
crusher in turn a skull crusher will be
slightly better for hypertrophy than
something like a push down just consider
this in your exercise selection and bias
most of your tricep trading to being
overhead or a school crushes that's the
video If you enjoyed this information
crammed packed video
please leave a comment down below
letting me know if there are any other
muscle groups you want to see me break
down the best exercises for according to
the science it's raining outside I'm
about to go train and get your Bo some b
roll but in the meantime please comment
like subscribe and I'll see you guys in
that next one
peace I swear to God I had two batteries
though that's the one annoying
thing me man I just wanton two
batteries all right