people say well yeah that works for
enhanced people how do they know that
well there's almost zero research on
what works best for enhanced so you
don't actually do you don't actually
know what the research says you just
know what Pros do except here's the
problem most natural Pros
train just about the same way as
enhanced Pros Pro splits drop sets pumps
shit like that most are Bros in The
Natty Community just like enhanced and
tons of natural Pros the guys actually
winning most of the pro shows they train
like Bros train the same way as enhance
people except they're just not as jacked
and live much longer so that's the
reality so this whole thing of like well
Natty's trained like this and you know
enhanced Pros train like that that's
mostly artifact that's not even actually
real