[Music]
are you wasting protein by having too
much all at once what do I mean it
suggests that there's a limit to the
amount of protein that can be used for
building muscle per meal with any extra
protein being oxidized on top of this
it's thought you have to wait some hours
before consuming protein again to be
able to re-trigger the muscle building
process if true this suggests to
maximize muscle hypertrophy it's best to
divide your daily protein intake across
a few meals separated by a few hours but
what if it actually exists is the limit
of the protein amount you can use per
meal in this video we're going to
dissect the most upto-date scientific
literature behind just this so that by
the end you'll have a clearer picture of
how you may distribute your protein for
muscle hypertrophy welcome to the house
of
hypertrophy turning back the clock to
2013 one of the most influential papers
on protein distribution was published
let's see what it was about 24 trained
men trained the leg extension and then
in the following 12 hours they consumed
80 g of whey protein one group did this
by consuming 10 g eight times every 1.5
hours a second by consuming 20 G four
times every 3 hours and a third by
consuming 40 G twice separated by 6
hours the result muscle protein
synthesis which is essentially the
process by which your body builds the
proteins that can result in a larger
muscle was best when consuming 20 G four
times every 3 hours some other papers
also find 20 G maximizes the protein
synthesis response such as this one that
had trained subjects train their lower
body muscle protein synthesis was more
or less optimized after consuming 20 G
of whe protein with 40 G providing very
little extra benefits so is that the end
20 g of protein is all you should have
in one go anymore and that extra amount
is quote unquote wasted the answer is no
there are considerations multiple of
them in fact one of them is that they
just involve training with one or two
exercises for a muscle group but most
people's training sessions tend to
involve training much more exercises and
targeting multiple muscle groups this
could change things indeed this 2016
paper had subjects train their full body
with this session and this time around
consuming 40 g of wheight protein
successfully increased muscle protein
synthesis more than 20 G another
consideration is in the first study we
mentioned remember subjects just
consumed 80 g of weight protein over 12
hours as alluded to in our last video on
how much protein you might want to
consume in a day most people are going
to consume more than 80 g Furthermore
with the other studies we mentioned they
just measured muscle protein synthesis
up to 5 hours after exercise but what
about Beyond this this is where an
excellent recent study comes into play
and it's ignited quite the buzz
online this new study was seriously
comprehensive but I'll relay the most
crucial details for our purposes active
men trained their full body with this
session and thereafter consumed either
zero 25 G or 100 G of milk protein
muscle protein synthesis was greater and
longer lasting after the 100 g of
protein relative oxidation rates were
also pretty small which goes against the
notion that any protein in excess of 20
to 25 G is entirely just oxidized
however one consideration is milk
protein was used around 20% of this is
whey protein which is fast digesting
while around 80% is casine protein which
digests slower you might suggest these
results would be quite different if a
proportionately faster digesting protein
was served yet the authors provide some
reasons as to why they think the
responses in this study may not just be
exclusive to predominantly slower
digesting proteins anyhow what does all
this mean well protein distribution may
not be as important as once thought
since a single single 100 G serving of
protein was capable of producing larger
and longer lasting growth signaling it's
likely fewer larger meals can still lead
to Great muscle growth additionally it
demonstrates something that is also
quite clear from other areas of the
research how much protein you consume in
the whole day is by far the most
important thing about protein with other
factors being far less important having
said this it is worthwhile stepping back
and realizing although this is a
fantastic paper we are still just
talking about muscle protein synthesis
we know muscle protein synthesis is
essentially the process by which your
body builds the proteins that can result
in a larger muscle however as perfectly
described in this review there are
established cases where muscle protein
synthesis data fails to correlate with
actual muscle hypertrophy the paper does
a great job at outlining when and why
this is also remember all the muscle
protein synthesis data largely looked at
the responses in the hours after
training but people of course can
consume protein in the hours before
training everyone eats protein on the
days they don't train and people tend to
also consume their protein sources with
other Foods thus it is ideal to look at
studies that have compared different
protein distributions in the context of
an overall diet for actual muscle growth
over many weeks of training let's do
just
[Music]
that in 2020 This research paper was
published untrained individuals trained
three times per week for 12 weeks one
group fundamentally had close to even
distribution of protein across three
meals while the second group had a
distribution that meant only two of the
meals could be considered as sufficient
protein servings so in essence the study
compared three to two sufficient protein
servings a day the result strength and
total leans soft tissue increases were
better for the three protein servings
but the differences were certainly far
from large as a result this study
suggests three servings of protein a day
may be a little better than two this
study isn't Flawless both groups
consumed around 1.3 to 1.45 G per kilog
of total body weight a day which as seen
in our last video is definitely not
terrible but you could could suggest if
protein intake was higher the results
would be different anyhow what about
data on more than three protein servings
this paper published a year later
recruited male rowers who were training
and bulking for 8 weeks consuming 3 to
six protein servings a day was compared
with total protein intake and calories
equated the result all measurements
including gains in fat-free mess were
comparable between both thus this stud
suggest although it's not detrimental
consuming more than three protein
servings a day fails to provide an
advantage this data does come from
merely 10 rowers but another paper on 24
Elite rugby players supports this notion
subjects continue to train for 6 weeks
and had to consume three protein shakes
each day one condition consumed the
shakes with every meal which resulted in
four sufficiently sized protein servings
a day while the other condition involved
consuming the shakes between meals which
resulted in six sufficiently sized
protein servings a day gains in lean
mass were similar between both
conditions so in total the current
evidence suggests three protein servings
may be a little better than two with no
further benefits of more than three
servings bear in mind this isn't
plentiful or super strong data so it's
possible future research could improve
our Insight if this happens we of course
provide an update at the house of
hypertrophy if for whatever reason you
cannot or do not want to consume three
protein servings don't stress about it
too much once again the acute paper on
100 g of protein may ease your mind and
remember the bigger picture daily
protein intake is far more important and
even more important than daily protein
intake as depicted in our last video is
training you just can't eat yourself to
a great physique well constructed and
executed training provides the key
foundational stimulus for growth
speaking about well-designed training
amidst all the noise online it can
definitely be frustrating and timec
consuming to craft an effective program
that gets you closer to your desired
physique but our highquality partner the
alpha progression app which is
fundamentally your personal muscle
building assistant in the palm of your
hand can help you other apps truly craft
garbage programs but this app
intelligently formulates a program
effective for complete muscular
development with the training variables
fine-tuned and inspired by the
scientific literature best of all it is
100% tailored to what you want let it
know the equipment you have how much you
can train and if you want to
preferentially Target or neglect certain
muscles this can all take you less than
a minute during workouts the apps
algorithm carefully suggests how you may
progress to push you to the next level
aesthetic graphs automatically display
your long-term progress and there is a
huge exercise database of some of the
best muscle building exercises with
simple video and text instructions
behind each try out every single one of
the premium features to your heart's
desire during a free twoe trial through
the link in the comments and description
if you like it and choose to go beyond
the link cuts the price of a
subscription by 20% I truly believe the
app is exceptional with a thousand of
reviews speaking to
[Music]
this
in the quest to maximize muscle
hypertrophy it has been thought how you
distribute your protein intake across
the day could modify the gains you see
there have been papers suggesting 20 g
of protein in one go maximizes the
muscle building signal with no benefit
to consuming more but there are multiple
limitations and considerations to this
data indeed in a well-designed study
that overcame some of the limitations
consuming 100 g of protein sixcess
sucessfully increased the muscle protein
synthesis more than 25 g of protein in
my eyes this demonstrates how protein
distribution is likely not as big of a
factor as once thought and you most
likely can see great gains with fewer
larger meals yet this data still is just
measuring muscle protein synthesis in
the hours after one training session
ideally we want to look at research that
has measured muscle growth in some way
after weeks of training when we do this
we see that there is evidence that three
protein servings a day is a little
better than two but there's no extra
benefit not a downside either to
consuming More Than This finally don't
forget that well- constructed and
executed training provides the key
foundational stimulus for growth thank
you for watching feel free to check out
the alpha progression app or our recent
deep dive into building the lats