let's finish on aing high note come
on yeah now slow now slow now slow
symmetrical
[Music]
too uh oh I see all right folks Dr Mike
here for RP strength Jared feather also
for RP strength ifbb Pro now check this
out Chris is an insanely successful
person and has been on a real dating
show before don't worry we'll ask those
questions between sets but he's so busy
being successful collecting money and
well look at how gorgeous he is what do
you think he's doing with the rest of
his time he doesn't have a lot of time
to lift weights good news though you can
still get insanely jacked shoulders and
arms with a workout that's really
straightforward to the point so we doing
dumbbells only it's convenient you can
do it from anywhere uh that has
dumbbells and it's going to just zap
that so that when you go on that
date with that hottie she's going to be
like oh my God your arms are so big can
you Flex you're be like not really I'm
still in shock but you're getting laid
later anyway let's go get laid I mean
train Chris uh same thing see you guys
over there oh
[Music]
God break toward the hips even more
almost like a close gri bench yep and
then fight those elbows
in and stretch up and back up good Bight
those elbows in the whole time elbows
are trying to a
kiss you've been on a dating show you
know what that looks like ha my man my
dog popping them collars and good
enough Chris Mr Chris why don't you
transfer over to the incline here and
we'll get you the dumbbells as well he's
too important to carry his own dumbbells
your butler is stuck in traffic I
assume it was a joke yes he is and I'm
not happy about it Edwards where are you
[Music]
why are we uh why are we leaning back
really big stretch so these are actually
able to clear your body and go behind
you and it stretches that lateral DT
even more we're really big on the
stretch position for hypertrophy all
right good enough and then stand up
keeping the dumbbells yep facing
yourself in the mirror try not to fall
in
off Mr Jared is going to talk you
through what we call here the Jerry curl
I would never call it that cuz I don't
name after myself but uh it's okay
to name things after your beloved Son
same with the uh elbows trying to kiss
each other so out in front and then try
to push your elbows in and up and come
all the way
up
yep there you
go the next exercise is actually going
to be a two-part little bit of the end
of the workout super set for biceps and
forearms uh the first exercise is what I
would consider regular dumbbell curl the
way you should do dumbbell curls where
you almost think about if you've seen an
arm Blaster your elbows are out in front
of you but arm blasters actually allow
you to rotate this way we are queuing
him to keep his elbows in and forward
that creates a shitload of supination
and because the biceps do attach up here
and that is part of bicep action is that
forward flexion of the shoulder we're
going to come all the way up while
pushing those elbows in and down with
the elbows out in front every now and
again we'll say reach out if your elbows
start
dropping good this allows that tension
to be imposed at a lengthen position for
the bicep which is uh very hypertrophic
I remember we spoke about it for two
hours too long long hours from there
we're going to move into the hammer curl
because yeah we want to hit some more
bicep with it everybody loves big biceps
but it's going to actually hit a lot of
the rest of the forearm flexors and
extenders and that bicep brake eye so
because it's a full delt and arm workout
we're going to go ahead and just take
the biceps once we get pretty close to
failure here and because the hammer curl
is easier that's why it's last we're
going to move right into the hammer curl
and you're going to cook the rest of
your biceps while hitting the rest of
the forearm as well good way to get slow
and controlled and you can go a little
faster on the way down but still slow
and controll generally that's a good
Cadence an interesting cue on both kinds
of curls is you trying to show your
inside of the elbow to the world at the
bottom yeah yes like that pretend you're
in the Victorian era and it's just the
nastiest thing you can show a
lady my word his anti cubital
FAA and then as they're in the Chariot
later it's like Janice what happened I'm
not sure but I quite liked it show me a
little bit of ankle come
on God what AED up time anyway yep folks
we're going to get started we have four
exercises we're going to do three sets
of each and we're not going to stop so
all of the explanation and stuff you'll
see they're going to be threaded in
afterwards Jerry and I are going to sit
down and tell you what's going on but
the real actual workout itself is bang
bang bang and I'm not talking about
Chris sex I'm talking about the train
it's both whatever the H yeah what is it
was love Island and take me out I did
two holy yeah I have a very well
credentialed history so you're good at
the banging partless good at getting
onto the show p and that's the hardest
part really correct yeah yeah yeah
banging at secondary are hold you have a
audience is everything are you allowed
to bang on the show uh there's half the
number of beds is there off couples
right but typically when I'm in a room
with 18 other people I don't F anyone
because it's grotesque no that that the
morals were low yeah I kep moral high of
course I would say more things but we're
on camera so
uhh all right yep let's take it to the
teeth all right I am this is Chris of
modern wisdom now we don't talk about
that right sorry we're modern and
we're wise
today and deeper reach behind a little
bit there you go good stuff
control
control again again no rest you got it
CHR you got it supposed to burn control
control we only caught the good ones el
el elbow fight him in fight him in
down sir no rest at the top Chris we
restart the counter if you keep resting
at the
top deep up you got one more
slow control elbows make it hard make it
hard make it hard and up good
good all right hearing you verbally
treat me like a remote control car
that's organized by chat GP work damn it
no it's like deep control up top wide
elbows
like a verbal neuralink okay remind me
of Q's here please 45° angle Pinkie up
control on the way down okay use that
inur use that inuring stretch it stretch
it stretch it now up there you go to the
extent that it is possible for you
without shoulder pain try to get the
pinkies up through the whole movement
because if you put the thumbs up the
vector mostly pulls on that front delt
and a little bit of side if you turn the
pinkies up can be weird for the
shoulders usually for most people look
fine it becomes a lot of side delt
almost all side delt even a little bit
of rear delt if you get fancy with it
you're going to go and clear that
midline probably getting up to about 45°
and then controlling that Ecentric and
getting that Big Stretch and then
strictly coming back up that essential
control listen you did all the work to
get the dumbbells up there you might as
well get all of the hypertrophic benefit
slowly lowering them back down these are
brutal do them right no cheating no
 let's get to it control
good you're in charge Chris don't let
the weight punk you out up nobody said
rest down there Chris nobody said
[Music]
rest up come on control just the delts
no body English no body one last one
delts delts Del up slow slow slow stand
up quick stand up Stu like right
here show us your elbows big chest begin
big chest at the bottom expose the
biceps big chest right there expose them
expose them yes there you
go elbows up there you go every tip we
give you is going to make it harder
Chris we're here to make it
hard oh youing pervert Jesus Christ
what's wrong with people today up and
then as if you're going to do another
one slow control pinkies up elbows
forward yes good rest for a sec now
Hammer curl don't no no no don't put him
down don't put him down grab at the top
of the
dumbbells
goodu don't rest the top too
much hit
it control control control control right
back up yes and then slow slow slow
elbows up R beautiful right over to
skull presses as you break you want your
elbows to go towards your hips you
normally don't want them to break
backwards that tends to Shear the elbone
away I found isn't fun if you try it it
it works for you no problem but if
typically Skull Crushers hurt your
elbows a little bit when you break you
break down as you break you keep your
elbows in and you're going to take the
dumbbells and put them at least to your
ears the movement does not end here it
ends as deep as possible and if like
Chris you'll see in a second you can get
them all the way back to touching the
traps or even bonus round the bench
which you're lying you get supering
bonus points up and then one last one
down slow elbows in elbows in elbows in
elbows in elbows in control control
control control weight
up Stu man good Chris right over
the shoulders again you got
it he's up
45° control control control control end
up very good that's it very good all
right Palms elbows
[Music]
chest one Nobody English Chris come on
man dumbles apart dumbles apart I see
you
elbows and curl that's it Hammer curl
time with them forearms man tell you
what man somebody drug test that imagine
him changing tires
and then slow as if you're going to do
another
one Rack you're so peaceful in your
what's with all round left yelling
all right guys so one thing you'll
notice is that during his workout Chris
is getting pretty winded he's getting
pretty sweaty that's a big deal we're
not taking any breaks between any
exercises just as long of a break as it
takes transition from one exercise to
the next to the next the next and after
that whole series of four is over we
don't give them any break we just come
right back if you train like this you
get a high degree of muscle ular
hypertrophy you would get a little bit
more if you rested longer however you
also get an awesome cardio workout a
little bit of an awesome one for arms if
you do this with chest and back amazing
if you do this with legs you're probably
going to die but if you don't die you're
going to be an unreal cardio shape if
you don't have a ton of time to train
Chris is a busy man he's out there on
Yachts super models he's got a yacht
actually made literally of multiple
supermodels woven together it's really
weird but it's fun he doesn't have a ton
of time to train you may be in that boat
as well you're a busy professional you
got career you got family you got kids
your kids got kids they got kids you
need uh in any case you can get in the
gym two three or four times a week and
do this alternating style super sets
multiple exercises in succession even
with dumbbells at home because you take
minimal rest breaks and use proper
technique and you push yourself you can
get jacked you can get stronger and your
overall cardio is going to improve so
you can play sports you can walk
upstairs you can play with your kids and
it reduces your risk of overall
mortality so you can be jacked for
longer which is really the whole point
of life I
think again down slow elbows in come on
Chris this is your second to last
rep and then down slow fight him fight
him in make it perfect it's last one
elbows in slow slow last of the TR left
come on press r good oh you want
another one my man we're here for real
 today good good good
right over go go go go go go go yep slow
slow slow slow last one coming up up up
up beautiful yes now slow now slow now
slow slow slow slow slow good stff right
over get right up come on my
man good huge man this is awesome chest
up really fight the elow for still yes
exactly good go go go go go God damn it
now slow as if you're going to do
another one as if you're going to do
another one Chris good technique good
technique that's it good good for the
grab the dumbles at the top Hammer
Time good
Chris good elbows up just a couple more
here
Chris let's finish on a high note come
on that's it that's it yeah now slow now
slow now slow symmetrical
too that's it beautiful rack I'll take
those from
you
damn good
you love love Island workout love
Island workout for sex
as far as I know there are two ways to
make an Englishman turn red one is to
send him to Mexico with what seemingly
is zero sunscreen like the people that
go from the UK to Mexico they just don't
know it's a thing 18 beers deep every
day Lobster red the other way is to cook
his ass Big Tex gym in Austin Texas look
at this redness we know this man worked
hard also look at those veins also look
at those
everything where am I again in any case
Chris would you think of that work out
tough very tough 15 minutes just awful
especially the last round was just I was
surprised at how much uh it showed up
some of
the inefficiencies I've got in my
movement so skull crushes felt actually
quite good and quite controlled
throughout laterals were okay but fell
off a cliff very quickly biceps it just
to me identified I need to do a ton more
work especially in that lengthen
position because that was the thing that
fell off most quickly yes and the thing
that actually grows you the most folks
when we see Mr Chris Williamson next
time he's going to have arms three times
the size just from holy somebody
drug test this man now if you guys want
to learn about how to get jacked and how
to get ripped I'm going to be appearing
on Mr Chris Williamson podcast and
that's the Chris Williamson podcast
modern wisdom podcast modern wisdom
podcast right hey but you don't call it
that on YouTube no no that's where I see
you in any case I'll be on there uh
probably very similar to when this video
releases to do a whole lot of that and
to teach you guys about how to diet
properly so you can look like Chris and
finally finally finally get laid for one
time in your life you enjoy that give
Chris a subscription his channel is
awesome he actually learned real life
things on his Channel about how to be a
good person that's some you'll
never learn on our Channel because Jared
and I well we're just not good people
Chris it's been an amazing pleasure
having you on and uh thank you
man thank
you peace homies