welcome to the house of hypertrophy the
deltoids consisting of the front side
and rear heads are a key muscle group
for unlocking an all-round impressive
physique the rear delts are particularly
in unsung gem as this head only boosts
the 3D look of the muscle especially
when viewed from the side but how can we
most effectively train this muscle how
good are exercises like pull-ups and
rows and what exercises effectively
isolate this muscle amidst all the Sea
of information on the internet it can be
easy to drown in confusion but today
we're going to be leveraging the current
scientific literature as best as we can
to infer how we can maximize radial
hypertrophy let us Plunge in
foreign
we'll be analyzing a bunch of compound
exercises you may not necessarily train
a lot of these variations about to be
mentioned and that is perfectly fine
after all many people's goal is to
predominantly Target muscles other than
the rear delts with compound exercises
we'll Circle back to this point soon
horizontal pulls such as bent over rows
cable rows inverted rows and dumbbell
rows are one broad category of compound
exercises that are frequently included
in many people's training program there
are different ways you can perform these
horizontal pulls and not all of them
equally challenge the rear delts all
horizontal pools involve elbow flexion
so we'll train the elbow flexors but if
you're performing horizontal pulls with
a grip closer to being narrower as done
with close grip bent over rows seated
rows inverted rows and most dumbbell row
variations your predominantly performing
shoulder extension
how effective is this for the rear delts
alongside the rear delts the teres minor
Terry's major and Lads are the main
muscles that can pull on the upper arm
bone to produce shoulder extension but
which of these muscles experiences the
best stimulus as detailed in this 2019
review study out of Australia the teres
major appears to have the largest
leverage throughout shoulder extension
note each line is a different study so
here we can see two studies indicate
that teres major have great leverage
throughout shoulder extension before
looking at the leverage for the other
muscles what on Earth is leverage
leverage refers to the muscle's moment
arm here's the biceps and its line of
force we know it acts on the elbow
joints between the elbow joint and the
line of Force if we draw a perpendicular
line the distance of this line is the
biceps moment arm fundamentally a longer
moment our means a muscle has greater
leverage and ability to generate
movement
think of a heavy door consider the
moment arm as the distance between where
you push the door and its hinges if you
push the door close to its hinges it's
challenging to open the door because the
moment arm is small but if you push the
door further from its hinges it's much
easier to open the door because the
moment arm is longer so muscles that
have a longer moment arm in any exercise
are the ones that for the most part have
the greatest potential to generate
movement and various pieces of
scientific research suggest leverage may
be one of the more critical factors in
how the central nervous system decides
what muscles to activate the most during
a movement
returning to our analysis the latissimus
dorsi appears to have strong leverage
for shoulder extension based on one
study but another study actually finds
much lower leverage upon analyzing this
study closer they actually separated the
lats into an upper middle and lower
region and they established the upper
region tended to have the best leverage
for shoulder extension compared to the
two other regions plotting this upper
left region leverage into our graph it's
still apparent the two studies got quite
Divergent findings it's not clear why
this is but this is a good time to
mention that this research looking at
leverage isn't Flawless measuring the
moment on the length of muscles isn't
simple Precision is required and
researchers use varying methods it's
also worth mentioning that with the lens
they wrap around the posterior chest
wall and neither of the two studies
assessing the let's leverage accounted
for this which means the estimated
leverages are not going to be pinpoint
accurate but besides these points it's
also critical to understand and people
are not anatomically identical and
muscle's leverage can vary between
people
even with these limitations in mind this
leveraged literature still provides a
quantifiable insight into the potential
contribution of muscles to a movement
going back to our analysis three studies
indicate the rear delts possess fairly
good leverage as for the teres minor
numerous studies indicates this tends to
have lower leverage throughout shoulder
extension so what does all this
information mean for horizontal pools
remember horizontal pools also tend to
involve scapular retraction so the traps
and rhomboids will also get involved
moreover the lats could contribute to
scapular attraction to some degree since
it's been identified the majority of
people may have some link between their
lats and scapular even so I would sum up
this data as suggesting that although
the Terry's major and possibly less may
see the bulk of the stimulus the rear
delts will likely still be respectively
targeted so this movement should do well
to contribute to rear cell development
however if you perform your horizontal
pools with an even wider grip searches
done during wide grip barbell rows
seated Rose inverted rows and dumbbell
rows perform like this they are likely
going to be even more effective for
their adults why as you transition from
a narrower to wider grip with horizontal
pulls you progress to performing
shoulder horizontal extension
as found in this classic analysis the
rear delts tend to be the muscle with
the greatest leverage for shoulder
horizontal extension whether
infraspinatus and supraspinatus being
close behind the teres major and let's
have a whole lot lower Leverage
further pointing towards this we have
fine wire Electro data establishing the
rear delts experience slightly higher
activity during shoulder horizontal
extension motions compared to shoulder
extension and Rowing motions and other
fine wire electrode analyzes also find
relatively High recordings from the rear
delts during shoulder horizontal
extension Now find wire electromyography
involves inserting a fine wire needle
into a muscle to record its electrical
activity and this method overcomes a few
limitations associated with surface
electromyography which is where surface
electrodes on the skin above a muscle
are used to record electrical activity
it is worth understanding this point in
a little more detail since we will be
referencing some surface
electromyographic studies a little later
fine wire electrodes minimize the
potential of surrounding muscles to
confound and interfere with our
recordings and during movement the fine
wire electrodes are able to follow the
muscle tissue as it moves with surface
electromyography this does doesn't
really happen now this isn't to say find
a way electrode research is perfect
there are still shortcomings in one of
the aforementioned studies they didn't
seem to equate relative loading between
the exercises nonetheless the totality
of this leverage research and this fine
wire Electro data leads me to believe
that wider grip horizontal pools rank
above closer grip horizontal pools for
adults
let us now transition our discussion to
Vertical pools before we begin to
provide advice about how you may train
long term for optimizing rear Del
hypertrophy
vertical pools searches pull-ups and lap
pull-downs are another common category
of compound exercises that people
heavily use in their training program
there are different ways you can perform
vertical pulls and not all of them are
likely equally effective for targeting
the rear delts like horizontal pulls
vertical pulls involve elbow flexion so
we'll train the elbow flexors but if
you're performing vertical pulls with a
grip closer to being narrower such as
close grip pull-ups and lap pull-downs
you're predominantly performing shoulder
extension
we've already established the leverage
various muscles have for shoulder
extension when dissecting close grip
horizontal pulls so you're actually
performing a similar motion at the
shoulder during closer grip vertical
pulls and closer grip horizontal pulls
the main difference being vertical pulls
enable a greater overall range of motion
approximately between 180 to 0 degrees
whereas the horizontal pools tend to
involve shoulder extension between 75 to
minus degrees that is you can achieve
shoulder hyperextension with horizontal
pulls we'll Circle back to this point
soon now the leverage data does not go
beyond 120 degrees and we know vertical
pulls involve shoulder angles Beyond
this range but this is not a major
problem because both closer grip
vertical and horizontal pull variations
tend to be the hardest and thus
maximally challenge the muscles below
120 degrees and we know the rear delts
have solid leverage here
motion at the scapular will occur during
vertical pulls typically scapular
depression and or downward rotation so
other muscles will be recruited
interestingly recall we previously noted
there's data implying the majority of
individuals have some link between the
let's and the scapular so the LED
involvement from vertical pulls May
further be enhanced through assisting
with depression and downward rotation
nonetheless as with closer grip
horizontal pulls I would say closer grip
vertical pulls respectively Target the
rear delts what if you perform vertical
pulls with a wider grip as you progress
from a narrower to wider grip such as
wider grip pull-ups and pull Downs you
predominantly transition to performing
shoulder adduction
the teres major let's
and subscapularis are the main muscles
that have the capacity to pull on the
upper arm bone to execute shoulder
abduction returning to the 2019 review
study out of Australia they also
detailed what the current scientific
research says about the leverage these
various muscles have throughout shoulder
abduction two studies indicate that
let's possess large leverage and the
same two studies also indicate the
Terry's major possess large leverage a
few studies indicate the subscapularis
has relatively smaller leverage most
studies suggest the rear delts have
minimal to no leverage for shoulder
adduction throughout the range of motion
but this doesn't mean the rear delts
aren't involved whatsoever with wider
grip vertical pulls in reality most
people don't perform super wide grip
vertical pulls that is purely shoulder
abduction rather it tends to be a
somewhat wide grip that uses a mixture
of shoulder adduction and shoulder
extension in technical terms you might
consider this adduction in the scapular
plane on-screen shows the results of a
few studies that have analyzed The
Leverage of the rear Del overall for
scapular plane adduction although some
of them indicate very small leverage
others do find fairly decent leverage
but overall I would say wider grip
vertical pools are going to rank below
closer grip vertical pools for targeting
the red delts indeed a 2002 surface
electromyography analysis out of the USA
supports this they found closer grip lap
pull Downs evoked higher reardale
activity compared to wider grip lap
pull-downs as alluded to earlier surface
electromyography semg has multiple
limitations in fact if you followed the
house of hypertrophy for a while you'll
know I'm highly critical of it there are
examples where surface electromyography
research fails to predict actual muscle
hypertrophy results yet this doesn't
necessarily mean all semg research is
erroneous there are some cases where it
does predict muscle hypertrophy for
example previous semg Research indicates
when training the calves placing the
feet outwards enhanced medial gastrocne
activity while placing the feet inwards
enhanced lateral gastrocodemius activity
indeed research measuring actual muscle
hypertrophy finds calf presses with the
feet outwards preferentially grew the
medial gastrocnemius while performing
them with a few inwards preferentially
grew the lateral gastrocnemius thus the
question is are the findings of the
present surface electromyography
analysis correct given the leverage
research we've overviewed I'm inclined
to believe it is probably closer to
being correct so here's the overall
rankings of the compound exercises we've
analyzed for rear delt development some
of you may be questioning why I placed
closer grip horizontal pulls above
closer grip vertical pulls despite the
fact that both involve shoulder
extension recall I mentioned you can
achieve shoulder hyperextension with
horizontal pulls something not typically
attained with narrow grip vertical pulls
this shoulder hyperextension likely
further biases the rear delts hence why
I opted to rank closer grip horizontal
pulls above closer grip vertical pulls
some of you might push back against this
and suggest since close to grip vertical
pulls involve a greater overall range of
motion they should be ranked above
closer grip horizontal pulls I certainly
understand where this point of view is
coming from but as we'll see a little
later on a greater range of motion
simply doesn't seem to be associated
with more muscle hypertrophy before
providing further information and then
advice about how you may train long term
for optimizing retail hypertrophy some
of you may be wondering about performing
vertical pools with a supinated grip
like done in chin-ups and supinated grip
LED pull-downs whenever you're using a
suprated grip on vertical pulls you're
predominantly performing shoulder
extension like you do with closer grip
vertical and horizontal pulls however
it's not Crystal Clear if the supinated
grip does anything to reduce involvement
of the shoulder extensors such as the
rear delts intriguingly the
aforementioned 2002 semg analysis out of
the USA found suprated grip LED
pulldowns evoked lower rear Del activity
compared to closer grip lap pull-downs
in fact the supinated grip let pull
Downs rear tail activity was similar to
that obtained in wider grip lap
pull-downs again we need to view the
surface electromyography studies through
a lens of caution the truth is I don't
know if these findings are valid one
could spare click that supinated grips
likely heavily involves the biceps and
then heavy biceps involvement lowers the
activity of the shoulder extensors such
as the results I think this is certainly
a valid speculation thus super plated
vertical pulls May either be alongside
wider grip vertical pulls if the surface
electromography findings reflect the
truth or above the wider grip vertical
pools if they don't
as alluded to near the start of the
video you're most likely not training
all of these variations in your program
but if a few of these compound exercises
are already in your program is that all
you need for developing the rear delts
in the long term if you're a
recreational lifter who isn't
necessarily overly worried about truly
maximizing radar hypertrophy rather
you're just after notable improvements
training with some of these vertical and
horizontal pulls may be sufficient even
if you're not necessarily trading the
one ranked as the best we still know
that other ones will contribute to rear
delt development here's what you could
do simply train with whatever horizontal
and vertical pulling exercises you like
after some months or even a year
evaluate your rear delt progress if
you're not satisfied with your rear delt
development then at this point it's
going to be a good idea to add in some
isolated riddle exercises to your
training if you're somebody with the
intention of doing everything in your
power to maximize radial hypertrophy
then I believe it makes sense to also
add some isolated retail exercise sizes
on top of whatever vertical and
horizontal pulls you may be performing
in your training program fundamentally
this seems to be a fine strategy for
enhancing a muscle's development for
example a recent study by Casiano speaks
to this with the glute Max 33 previously
untrained women trained three times per
week for 10 weeks one group purely
trained the leg press and stiff-legged
deadlift each with these variables
another group also trained the leg press
and stiff legged deadlift but they added
a hip thrust strictly speaking the hip
thrust isn't actually an isolation
exercise but as seen previously at the
house of hypertrophy we know this
movement predominantly just grows the
glute Max this second group due to the
addition of the hip thrust ended up
performing more total sets it was
ultimately found glute Max growth was
Superior for this second group overall
since isolation exercises are generally
a lot less taxing and fatiguing I think
they're just a great way to train a
muscle more while attempting to keep
recovery in check before detailing what
may be some of the best reardale
isolation exercises in my attempt to
make this video as in-depth as possible
I do want to mention two semg studies
which find that reverse machine flies an
isolation retail exercise evokes higher
retail activity compared to seated rows
these findings are quite interesting
because the seated rows were performed
in a way that meant shoulder horizontal
extension was occurring which is the
same movement occurring at the shoulder
in machine reverse flies despite this
the findings indicate higher radial
activity from the machine reverse flies
which at face value suggests they may
provide a larger stimulus
on the one hand many people may not be
surprised with these findings but on the
other hand I do certainly see why these
results may be somewhat surprising to
others because as just mentioned both of
them fundamentally involve the same
movement at the shoulder joint so why
would retail involvement be different
once again I can't overstate that we
must view these semg studies through the
lens of caution but if these findings
reflect a truth one could speculate that
the fact-seated roles involve motion at
their elbow and perhaps the possibility
some subjects retracted and engage their
muscles around the scapular as plausible
reasons behind the findings nevertheless
machine reverse flies was the rear tail
isolation exercise used in these two
semg studies but what are the most
effective exercises for isolating the
results as per the leverage and find why
I lectured research we know the rear
delts are highly involved in shoulder
horizontal extension and besides machine
reverse flies dumbbell and cable reverse
flights also involve this motion face
pulls although technically a compound
exercise also involve this motion when
performed in this way finally dumbbell
power raises involve the movement are
any of these potentially more effective
for building their adults at the time of
recording this is how I would rank them
I hypothesize cable reverse flies and
dumbbell power raises are two of the
best rear delt Builders with face pools
and machine reverse flies ranked behind
them and then finally dumbbell reverse
flies
no I don't believe this is a Flawless
ranking and I know not everyone will
necessarily agree with it but allow me
to explain my thought process behind it
with Dumbo reverse flies it's important
to know just because they are ranked
last it does not mean they are tragic
for growing their eggs else I think they
will do a good job the limitation with
them however is that they are only most
challenging at that shortened muscle
position at the Final End range of
motion machine reverse flies are a step
up from this as they do a better job at
providing resistance throughout the
range of motion
I've also placed face pulls at the same
level and this one may be a little more
controversial although Facebooks are
more challenging at the shortened
position in addition to involving
shoulder horizontal extension they also
involve external rotation and something
I've yet to mention in this video is the
rear delts are involved in external
rotation thus perhaps the combination of
these movements could be somewhat
beneficial at the top of the rankings we
have cable reverse flies and dumbbell
power raises these involve shoulder
horizontal extension but both of these
movements involve the attainment of a
great stretch of their adults and are
highly challenging around that
lengthened muscle position
if you follow the house of hypertrophy
for a while you'll know there's emerging
research indicating that trading muscles
at more lengthened positions seems to
build more muscle
this study from Japan compared seated
Legos to Langley Coast seated let go
stretch out of the hamstrings better and
they more effectively grew the
hamstrings another study by the same
authors compared triceps overhead
extensions to pushdowns and overhead
extensions better stretch out the long
triceps head they more effectively grew
the overall triceps moreover emerging
data indicate a partial range of motion
at that long muscle length may be
superior to using a full range of motion
this study by Pedrosa involves comparing
a partial range of motion leg extension
as their initial position where the
quads are at a longer length to a full
range of motion vastus lateralis and
rectus femoris hypertrophy tended to be
overall better with a partial range of
motion at the initial position another
study by Casiano compared performing
this car for exercise with a partial
range of motion at the stretched
position to using a full range of motion
medial and lateral gastrocnemius
hypertrophy favored using the partial
range of motion at the stretched
position finally a recent abstract from
Japan indicates with a multi-hit machine
using a partial range of motion as a
long a length produced overall better
muscle I purge fee compared to using a
full range of motion no this particular
study has only been presented as an
abstract at a conference but I'm
presuming it will be officially
published soon I think more research is
needed to examine if a partial range of
motion at long muscle lengths always
builds muscle more effectively than
using a full range of motion in all
circumstances but at least this
literature further points towards that
lengthened muscle position being
valuable for evoking muscle growth and
this combined overall literature
surrounding muscle length leads me to
hypothesize cable reverse flies and
dumbbell power raises could be the two
better result builders
having said all of this some people have
speculated the result should not grow
more with exercises attaining a stretch
why they believe so due to research
looking at the length tension
relationship of the rear delt sarcomas
however as I've previously detailed in
an article I believe this literature has
a range of limitations that means it
cannot be sincerely used to decipher if
a particular muscle will benefit from
exercise attaining a stretch or not thus
in the absence of other research these
rankings reflect my current speculations
if any new research comes along that may
influence my thinking into a different
direction I'll be sure to update you all
if you're curious about further ideas
for creating an effective muscle
building program our high quality
partner Alpha progression can help it
contains an extremely flexible custom
workout generator that can tailor a
program to your needs you determine how
often and how long you want to train for
and whether you want to focus on certain
muscles you can also specify what
equipment is available to you there are
well over a quadrillion input
combinations on which custom workouts
are generated a great thing is the
training philosophy in the app is based
on meta-analyzes and literature reviews
there are also aesthetic graphs that can
track virtually everything like your
strength progression number of workouts
body weight and even set numbers per
week and the circumference of body
regions the link in the comments and
description gives you a free two-week
trial of all the app's features and if
you like the app and go beyond the link
gives you 20 off a subscription rest
assured the app is of the highest
standard we don't just partner with
anyone at the house of hypertrophy
[Music]
as a fun fact although we typically
consider the deltoid to consist of three
segments the front side and rear
segments there is research suggesting
the deltoids actually consist of seven
segments fascinatingly text dating back
from as early as 1734 have documented
this and the segments are visible in
lean individuals although there's no
unanimous agreement functional data
would suggest the first segment is the
front head the second two segments the
side head and the final four segments
that we're ahead it's not currently
clear of certain exercises May
preferentially grow different segments
of the rear head but we can't be
confident that all the exercises
described as being respectable or better
for developing the rear head would
effectively train all four segments
nonetheless in summary both vertical and
horizontal pulling exercises can
effectively train their adults based on
the available evidence this is how I
would broadly rank their effectiveness
if you're training some of these I do
believe you will see great rear delt
development in the long term if you're
simply a recreational lifter who's not
overly concerned about maximizing
everything then I would say isolated
retail exercises are probably not
essential although I will say that if
after a few months or a year of training
your choice of horizontal and vertical
pulling exercises if you're not
satisfied with your rear delt
development then at this point it is
going to be worth adding in isolated
rear delt training likewise if you're
someone who is trying to do everything
in your power to maximize radio
hypertrophy adding isolated Ridout
training to whatever compound exercises
you're training is probably going to be
required based on the available evidence
this is how I would rank isolation
retail exercises
feel free to consider checking out our
guide to cydelts hypertrophy