[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is racquel here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video series number eight
how often should you train if you want
more details on our website the
hypertrophy guide central hub and on
this YouTube channel more of the
long-form videos which explain all these
topics in much greater depth and scope
so how many weekly sessions should you
do for the same muscle group like how
many times should you train chest per
week well it depends on how hard you
train in each session you can train
again when the muscle that you're trying
to Train can perform at its normal level
or a bit higher okay if it's if
performance is lower and lower and lower
every time you train you get worse so if
the muscle is recovered or better you
can train it again right and the muscle
is no longer sore you don't want a ton
of overlapping soreness always changing
your sore increases your injury risk and
it probably just does so much damage it
interferes with growth directly so
here's the thing because you choose how
much training you can do it really
alters your frequency so if you do
something like four cents per session
let's say chest you just do four sets of
bench that means you might be able to do
four sessions of chest per week because
you recover super quick from that no big
deal but if you do something like eight
sets per session maybe you can only
train twice a week because it takes
longer to recover both of those are
absolutely totally fine
anything under two to four sets per
muscle per session like if you do just
two sets of biceps or one set of biceps
and leave you might just combined it
into fewer sessions because you're just
showing up to the gym more than
necessary there's no reason to split up
muscle groups or in your training into
that frequent of a split it just doesn't
offer any advantage you have to just
show up to the gym more often you're
actually probably wear and tear more on
your joints because your joints never
get a break you're always training that
same muscle group on the other hand
anything over 12 sets per muscle per
session it's better to split up so if
you say okay either I do 15 sets of
chests on only Monday or I do like seven
or eight sets of chests on Monday seven
or eight sets on Thursday that second
option is much better so anything over
12 you want to split up anything under
like Oh 2:00 to 4:00
or you probably just want to condense
into other training the result is that
for a muscle group anything between two
and six sessions per week is totally
fine as so long as you consider your own
personal ability to recover and you're
managing the volume per session very
well the thing is with higher
frequencies you actually end up doing
more total work per week which is
actually a way to hypertrophy faster but
it's not a sustainable specifically on
your systemic ability to recover and the
joints and connective tissues involves
you can do high-frequency training for
short bursts of several months at a time
but you probably need to back away from
that every now and again
what about total sessions per week okay
so we're not talking about like for
chest we're talk about how many times
you show up to the gym and it really
depends on your training age adherence
is everything you don't want to burn
people out so here's the deal
beginners probably your best doing two
to four total sessions per week four
that's training their whole body they
just come to the gym two to four times
why you don't want to burn them out you
can always give them more and they'll
respond better there's a thing they
don't need to respond better because
make great gains in any way and because
you don't want to burn them out but they
make great gains from easy training
anyway you might as well just make it
easy and you want to make it a little
bit easy not enough training for them to
really really want it because you want
to ignite the desire for more it's like
feeding someone appetizers it just makes
them hungrier so it's great to have
beginners do a little bit less err on
the side of less then a little more
because the little more might burn them
out really bad a little less might just
make them crazy for training which is
what you want anyway right and this
means because you're only training two
to four sessions a week almost all
beginner programs will be every single
muscle every single session so it's
basically whole body every single time
no big deal once someone is an
intermediate level trainee then it's
maybe three to six sessions per week
total why well they won't burn out from
anymore sessions like five or six
because they love training at this book
that's how they got to be intermediates
they just didn't quit
also they just need more sessions to do
their muscles justice like whole body
sessions are cool if you rotate stuff
around but you know if you do too whole
body sessions gee I mean a lot of
muscles
really at the end of the session you're
doing tons of work it's just not enough
you do more like three four five and six
then you're really getting a lot more
work done and intermediates need more
work because they're less growth
responsive than beginners and this is
where split programs become more common
and not required you can still do whole
body training but just rotate what you
do first but this is where push pulls
start to come in handy upper lower so on
and so forth what about advanced
advanced folks can benefit best from
five to twelve sessions per week how the
hell do you do twelve we'll get to that
in a second so each muscle needs to be
first in its session at least once a
week because muscles are now really
resistant to growth
if you always train biceps after back
you're not gonna get the biggest biceps
you can at least one time a week biceps
need to go first in a training session
because you have a lot of muscles if
every muscle has to go first in a
training session G that that's gonna be
a lot of training sessions because you
have more than like four muscles on your
body right it's more than four muscles
maybe you know if we're charitably
counting at least eight or something
like that right and at this point each
muscle is so hard to train it requires
so much it stimulates for growth that
you requires you to be fresh and causes
so much fatigue that a lot of the
sessions have sort of condensed down to
only two or three muscles per session
the beginner can train quads and chest
and back and shoulders all and the legs
in the same session an advanced person
won't do that they might train just
chest and back or maybe even that's too
much they might train back and biceps or
chest and triceps or just legs and maybe
in any of all of legs they might train
quads and glutes on one session because
that's enough and anything more would
just be way too fatiguing and not worth
the trade-off here's the thing if you
are advanced and you can only train five
or six days a week you need to start
doing emphasis D emphasis rotation
cycles where you put some of the muscles
as the ones you train first two priority
ones for a few months let's say chest on
the front burner quads on the front
burner back and on the back burner you
do back later in the workouts on the
same ones you do chest hamstrings you
always do after quads so for a while
back and hamstring is really not making
a ton of progress they're growing a
little bit maybe just maintaining and
your chest and quads are growing after a
few months you switch the rotation where
it's back first chest last and then it's
hamstrings first quads last and then
those muscles get the emphasis because
if you just train I always train my back
after
just your backs not gonna grow as an
advanced person your chest will continue
to get much bigger than your back and
that's not something you want if you
want a balanced Uzi but the most
advanced way to train here is double
daily session so if you're really super
seriously committed you don't want to do
a ton of rotation because that means
you're maintaining some muscles for a
long time you might be able to do double
daily sessions not every single day is a
double day but some are double day so
for example eight sessions per week I
mean six sessions you do you know Monday
through Saturday you train every single
time Sundays off and then maybe on
Monday and Thursday you also do another
session so you do a smaller muscle group
later in the day so that's eight
sessions per week you could do ten
sessions per week and even twelve
sessions per week what you don't want to
do is train every day at least one day
out of every week should be completely
off to recycle and recoup everything
folks thanks for tuning in see you next
time