if you do better and better and better
technique the stimulus you get for
muscle growth from the exercise improves
and the fatigue you accumulate declines
which means that you can pour more
intensity and more volume into that
exercise with that good technique get
more out of it and not really ever have
to pay the price of dilapidated joints
and telling people you were big back in
the 1980s before you broke your back in
that one deadlift attempt that's the
best way to grow the most long-term
muscle hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization
Fitness simplified series I almost said
something else by accident that would
have been lewd and dirty and got us
canceled forever Fitness simplified
series next video this isn't the first
video I think it's the second who knows
what time it is what good technique
actually is when you're training in the
gym to try to get your swole on what is
good technique so in order to train the
most effectively that you can to grow
muscle your Technique needs to be as
good as it can be the closer to perfect
the better yes that's true but when we
try to Define perfect we realize there's
a lot of variation in what really good
technique can be and thus there actually
is no such thing as the perfect
technique that everyone can use because
everyone's built a little different and
there's wiggle room at every single
point of what perfect technique is it
ends up being that the best you can do
is great technique and great technique
is is quite varied in what that looks
like but there are a few core common
features of very very good technique
that pretty much are always effective in
kind of nearly all attempts at muscle
growth training so let's take a look at
them to see to make sure that you and
your own training program whatever it is
you're doing in the gym are applying the
principles of a really good technique
now this is optimized towards muscle
growth a lot of the stuff also applies
to strength training in a way that's as
safe as possible so there are at least
five things five core elements of what I
would call universally good technique
for muscle growth training in the gym
with weights first is a deep range of
motion that means whatever muscle you
are training or muscles you are training
if you get them into their Ultra
stretched position under heavy loads
you're going to grow more muscle than if
you never really get your muscles into a
stretch and kind of avoid that bottom
stretch position so a deep range of
motion for a mega stretch at the bottom
is a real core element that in almost
all cases if you do any exercise and the
exercise version you do has a deep
stretch versus the same exercise done
with a technique that doesn't let you
stretch deep like pull-ups where you
pull all the way up to the top versus
pull-ups where you kind of stop here and
come back up the Deep stretch version
almost always grows more muscle and you
have to use less load which often means
a little bit less fatigue and or less
risk of injury and because you're taking
your muscles through a super big range
of motion and putting them into kind of
interesting flexibility positions you
expand your Mobility flexibility
athletic ability and reduce your overall
future injury risk from any kind of
activity if you slip on ice but you're
used to doing super deep sumo squats is
that really a position which your body's
going to put you that you're going to
get like hurt you're pulling aductor out
of your hip but if you're cutting your
depth a lot and you slip on ice and you
have to really dip down with your hips
you can hurt some stuff because your
body is not strong through its most
extreme position so tons of bonus there
but just for muscle growth by itself
deep stretches are big number two a
controlled Ecentric the lowering phase
your muscles that are acting are
lengthening while they're Contracting
slowing the weight down if you don't
control entric two things can happen one
is because the Ecentric phase causes
lots of muscle growth a little bit more
probably than even the concentric phase
going up you're missing out on some
muscle growth not a ton but a little bit
if you don't control that weight but the
worst thing that can happen is if you
let's say you're bench pressing and
yours dumping the weight on your chest
and then rocketing it back up and then
dumping it with no control is The
Dumping part can actually cause injury
not just from the bar physically hitting
you but from muscles being put into a
really high Force requirement position
in a huge pulse when you have to reverse
out of this huge velocity in the other
direction so there are sport context
once you're properly warmed up to do
explosive reactive plyometric type
movements but they are not designed to
grow muscle and you have to really ramp
into them and they're Ultra Ultra
fatiguing as well and the risk of injury
there is not as low as it is for
conventional resistance training to try
to put on muscle so by controlling
entric and I don't mean controlling it
for five years and checking the clock
and keep going I mean for at least one
second where you're pushing back against
the weight somewhat you're not just dive
bombing it controll decentric is a
really good idea and that's our second
core way to have good technique in
almost every case number three is no
cheating cheating is generally defined
as trying to leverage your body and
using other muscles and Herky jerky
movements and such a way that makes you
able to lift the weight you're trying to
lift but that doesn't rely on putting
the muscle that you're trying to train
in an exposed position where it's
supposed to work its hardest so if I'm
doing curls and I do them like this what
is providing almost all of the energy
for contraction here it's the bicep like
it's doing all the lifting and thus
getting all the benefit but if I start
doing curls and swinging around like
crazy then I'm using my glutes I'm using
my lower back I'm using my upper back
I'm using my front delts to generate a
crap load of force to the dumbbells but
the biceps are still doing a similar
amount of work and actually if you
really focus your ability to really
contract with just your biceps you get a
better contraction in your bicep than if
you're just athletically throwing the
weight around sometimes your biceps work
just as hard but a lot of times other
muscles come in and help which means you
have to do more reps or more weight to
get the same or even slightly less
effect to that Target muscle cheating is
one of those things that you know what
is it uh there was an old uh forgot if
this I think this is really true it's
not an urban legend there was like some
kind of Supreme Court Justice or
something that uh they were had they had
ruling on a case of of pornography and
whether something was lewd or not or
approved for TV and he said I can't
Define pornography but I know it when I
see it uh cheating is similar to that we
can and did just Define cheating but if
you have to ask yourself is what I'm
doing cheating in the gym do you need to
swing around to hit your biceps better
no that's just you being an egotistical
idiot and trying to get more Reps for no
reason then yeah it's cheating if the
way in which you're moving gets your
biceps into the movement more then it's
just a good special technique and it's
not cheating at all cheating is almost
always and everywhere about only two
things avoiding pain that's coming your
way anyway by cutting your depth or
getting out of the way of where a
movement really hurts or about
leveraging yourself to lift way more
weight or do way more reps than that
Target muscle itself can power if you're
doing either one of those two things
you're cheating if the way you're moving
looks like cheating to the untrained eye
but really it's leveraging the muscles
more than hey you're doing a great job
so no worries at all so number three no
cheating and gee that wipes about about
90% of all the techniques you've ever
seen at the regular commercial gym right
off the map because most people cheat as
much as they can because they think if I
just get the work done I'll get the
results which is true but it's not just
about getting the work done it's about
getting the work done by putting muscles
through a deep range of motion super
deep stretch a controll Ecentric and
point number four fourth unifying
principle of good technique for muscle
growth training is to Target the muscle
that is limiting factor which means you
arrange your Technique in such a way the
way you move your body in such a way
that when that exercise is getting close
to failure you're unable to do it
anymore the muscle you're targeting
is what's limiting you it's you can't do
another bench press rep because your
chest is pulling as hard as it can and
it's like dude I don't got this anymore
it's not because your chest feels
totally great but your triceps or your
wrists are hurting so much you're like I
got to put this down I got to stop are
you training wrists in the bench press
no you're trying to train your pecs the
question of what the technique looks
like is entirely determined on your
leverages and on which exercise you're
doing and which muscle group you're
training so if you're training the leg
press for the quads and you put your
feet really high up and really wide on
the platform it reduces how much range
of motion your quads go through your
hips uh your adductors your inner thigh
is now the limiting factor and it's also
the muscle that's getting the most
stimulus so you can say yeah leg press
that's for quads but your Technique on
it isn't good for quads because if you
wanted quads you take your feet put them
closer together lower on the platform go
through a really big range of motion for
your quads now at rep number 11 when you
get close to failure it's because your
quads can't push anymore they're
limiting factor which means they get the
closest to failure which is where more
muscle growth than not is stimulated and
then they get that big green check mark
of like okay this is good technique for
the
quads training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same and so if you do chest flies in a
way that really exposes your chest
versus you're flying flat like this and
you're doing them kind of halfway and
someone's like is it your chest that's
getting hit in that exercise like no I
kind of feel more my front delts that's
a problem that's a problem good
technique is technique in which the
target muscle is limiting factor and
because there are many different ways to
move even in the same exercise and
especially if you're built a little
different that keeps the target muscle
limiting factor there are really a lot
of different things that are good
technique for example if you do a skull
crusher and you keep your elbows in the
entire time totally cool but if you're
do a skull crusher and you let your
elbows come out but there's a very huge
degree of elbow flexion as long as your
triceps are the limiting factor towards
the end both are excellent techniques
which one you do comes down mostly to
the last Universal tip for technique
Point number five which is pick the
technique that least needlessly beats on
your joints so if you're doing a bicep
curl like this versus one out here both
feel good both Target the muscle like
they're supposed to do both controlly
Ecentric Etc and you're like hey Dr Mike
which one of these techniques is best
I'll tell you one of two things one I I
think they're both good and you can use
one for a few months and use one for
another but the next question I'd have
to ask you is which one feels better on
your joints you're like dude to be
honest when I come Arc out like this my
elbows feel great if I'm curling close
to my body like they get kind of crey
they don't like hurt hurt but after a
couple sessions they do start to hurt
and affects my pull-ups well crap you
know here's a fundamental fact about
training especially for muscle growth
your muscles are more recoverable than
your joints which means your muscles can
take more of a beating from a variety of
different angles and they're never going
to be the limiting factor um it's it's
like you know a rumbling stomach
probably won't be the thing that stops
you if you're trying to run your first
marathon ever it'll be the fact that
your ankles hurt so much you can't walk
anymore like they're the limiting factor
in that case so a lot of times what we
want is the best technique that hits the
muscles for sure that's number one but
also is the easiest possible technique
that we can realis ically imagine on the
joints involved if you have a leg press
setup or a hack squat you're doing for
your quads and one of the ways in which
you do the hack squat I mean it blasts
your quads right man it fucking beats up
your lower back a little bit and your
knees are not feeling so Mega Bueno
after that shit versus another technique
same hack squat different technique you
move your feet around move your hips
around and all of a sudden that other
technique hits your quads just the same
amazing stimulus but your joints feel
pretty goddamn good that's the better
technique so before you ever judge
someone's technique externally look some
if they're cheating they're cheating
it's obvious to everyone but if you're
before you judge someone's technique
maybe chat with them a little bit and
ask them if hey like uh you know which
one of these things how does this feel
on your joints because sometimes people
do some stuff that looks a little goofy
the reason they do it is because that's
the only way they can train that
exercise and still have their joints
come out alive and then it's it's
totally good and then you can say thank
you for participating in my interview at
the gym where I asked you about why
you're doing a technique and you
answered a question for me and then like
what what fuck are you talking to me for
but don't worry you imagined all that
because you're never going to speak to
anyone at a gym because you don't have
enough self-confidence but just like
me took me years to get used to speaking
in front of a camera and that Scot video
guy yelling at me and pointing a gun at
me reminding me the camera's an
inanimate object can't hurt me like he
can if I don't start talking the usual
great working
relationship now the last thing I'll say
is this none of what I said none of the
five pillars of good technique in muscle
growth training is Dogma it's not a
religion it's just something that's good
on the margins when applied to a program
so it would behoove you to do more of
these things than fewer of these things
if you're like yeah the controlly
Centric thing meh but like fuck my
joints I don't care about
them if you were like I'm going to do
some kind of control decentric and I'm
just going to pick exercises and
techniques that are decent on my joints
you're doing yourself a service this is
all on your side it's not like oh you
should do this or else like this is all
for you if if you do better and better
and better technique the stimulus you
get for muscle growth from the exercise
improves and the fatigue you accumulate
declines so your stimulus to fatigue
ratio gets better and better and better
which means that you can pour more
intensity and more volume into that
exercise with that good technique get
more out of it and not really ever have
to pay the price of dilapidated joints
and telling people you were big back in
the 1980s before you broke your back in
that one deadlift attempt that's the
best way to grow the most long-term
muscle and longterm is how you gain
muscle you can get really good results
from crap technique and good technique
within a week's time within a month's
time shit within a year's time but if
you use bad technique for a year and a
half the probability it'll just rake
your joints across the coals and you
won't be able to lift much anymore or
get you acutely hurt is a very high well
I'll put it another way low in absolute
terms much higher in relative terms than
you want it to be versus if you have
good technique and good technique you
could grow a very similar amount of
muscle good technique as with bad but
it's just going to last you much longer
it's hugely sustainable because it beats
the shit out of your body much less in
the way that we don't want to beat the
shit out of ourselves so always be aware
to try to do as much Justice to these
five technique fundamentals unless you
have a very compelling reason to
deviate deep stretch controll Ecentric
no cheating Target the muscle that
you're actually trying to train and make
sure it's the limiting factor and if
it's not change where you're putting
your arms and legs and lastly choose a
technique of that variation that is
easier on the joints if you do that you
will grow more muscle if you need extra
help growing muscle right there in the
uh Link in the description is a link to
our RP hypertrophy app which is a
programming app you put whatever number
of days whatever muscle groups you want
to train and guides you the whole
process and then it designs entire
training programs for you that adjust to
how your body is changing to give you
the best possible training every single
day and every single week of the program
if you're into that sort of thing
awesome if you want help with eating and
getting more jacked and getting more
lean we have the RP diet coach app it
plans your meals for you it plans your
whole day of macros you can move stuff
around it's awesome I use it every
single day for all my food I'm legally
not allowed to eat unless I log my RP di
coach app why' I sign that contract
there you go folks give that some
thought and I'll see you next time
[Music]