Mr Walsh is up on our leaderboard now
huh well there's a way to make this more
efficient when you're training for MMA
shit you do MMA shit when you're
training in the gym you do gym shit this
is kind of that weird in between Zone
it's not the best for either one I
wanted to like this I really
[Music]
did hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I've been a professor of sport
exercise science for a while I have a
PhD in sport physiology I'm a
competitive bodybuilder in Brazilian
jutu Grappler and I've known to have a
knack for acting yes yes I went to a
Scott the video guy what's it called a
thespian Academy until I was 15 but
after the crash I could no longer act
Google that in any case today we have a
very special video where me the exercise
scientist I guess I really am one of
those so no quotes required is going to
be reviewing Mr Jake
Gyllenhaal's
preparation for his amazing Physique in
the latest Blockbuster hit do people
still say that and what exactly is a
blockbuster I never could tell uh
Roadhouse which is a remake of an
original movie also called Roadhouse
with the ever awesome Patrick sesy rip
rip right Scott's video Guy R rip damn
all right let's get into it folks so
first off let's talk about who Jake
Gyllenhaal really is I know
maybe three things arguably four about
him one he's is known to be an actually
good actor who can act as a lot of
people in Hollywood do not fall into
that
description two I know that he has a
sister named Maggie gyllenhal SC the
video guy am I am I right on that not
sure she looks remarkably like him by
the way and the third thing I know about
him is that he has these puppy dog
dreamy eyes he looks so sad like he need
a hug from me 240 lb hairy and veiny me
boy yes I said hairy and veiny that
applies to my entire body think that
through even your tongue Dr Mike that's
disgusting why would you say that also
Dr Mike who just said that and the
fourth thing that I now know he's known
for is having a fucking completely RI to
shit body for Roadhouse Holy
balls I was not ready for the shit my
wife and I just saw the movie a little
bit ago and I have to admit I was under
the influence of edible marijuana during
the entire film it's tough to watch a
movie like this sober wouldn't you agree
I'm kidding folks sobriety is the best
way to do everything most things let's
find out what Jake Gyllenhaal did to get
in shape for this rooll and the first
thing we have is a written statement
this is like a fucking Court proceeding
by his trainer a gentleman named Jason
Walsh the Pair worked together to hone
Jake's body for Roadhouse for over a
year according to to Walsh but that
doesn't mean that it took that long to
achieve the physique you'll see on
screen or that Jal was that level of
ripped for the whole shoot period you
don't always stay Ultra ripped and lean
for months and months of filming that
would be possible but insanely demanding
it would probably degrade his cognitive
abilities in the short term and thus his
acting so instead of hey get out of this
bar he'd be like hey
um like uh you like a hot dog or
something I can eat some shit like that
a lot of people will watch the shit and
go oh my God Jake Gyllenhaal Google how
did he get ripped and see some old
bullshit about 8 weeks 12 week blah blah
blah the fact that Jason Walsh his
trainer is saying look this shit took a
year is awesome because it's like oh
yeah shit that is really impressive
takes a while to do the program is split
into several Progressive phases
BR I like it most Hollywood trainers
like the phase is we do bosu ball and
then you eat a yoga block and you're
ready to go this ising dope and here's
the best part starting the Baseline
phase to establish the conditioning a
hypertrophy phase to build
muscle the Angelic Harps are playing for
me I love this a ton then a sport
specific phase to reinforce the movement
patterns he would need to do on camera
and because this is a fighting movie not
just carrying fake guns around and
pretending to shoot the movie this it's
legit Jak Gyllenhaal did some shit on
camera that like if you just did
hypertrophy training and you could pull
your hamstring trying to do that shit
but they did a sport specific phase to
reinforce the movement patterns of fake
fighting on camera which is is quite
physical itself I really really like
that Scott the video guy Mr Walsh is up
on our leaderboard now huh well I said
now yeah before we review the footage of
the that no doubt will ensue he was the
guy that did the hump exercise of Bri
lson go God damn it that
guy all right let's see what the what's
going on
here train like Jake Gyllenhaal okay we
got some and some good stuff mixed in hi
I'm Jason Walsh I'm coming to you from
my studio rise movement in Los Angeles
California whoa hey Scott is it just me
or is there something up with his eyes
like he maybe like doesn't have a soul
dude they're so azour
Azure when I received the news that Jay
got the rooll for Roo hey okay so Jason
Walsh does have the angle here but he
looks pretty jacked so he might know
some things by experience as well Jake
jenal looks half asleep which he
normally looks half asleep that's what
I'm talking about the puppy dog eyes
nobody looks like at you like that
except for two people people Jake
Gyllenhaal and your rescue pit that's it
not only did Jake need Aesthetics but
needed to perform stuns across from
Conor McGregor one thing that is
baffling is that Conor McGregor's head
is roughly twice the size of Jake
Gyllenhaal's head even though he's a
little bit shorter when you fight Pro
Fighters sometimes you realize there're
as the colloquial statement goes built
different you don't want to hit Conor
McGregor in the face that's going to
break youring hand that's scary as a
professional athlete in
UFC I like how the next clip they go to
he's like telling the cameraman to go
himself oh you fucking fuck I'm fucking
drunk aren't
I I got a tip for you don't let no one
get this close Okay so I tell you real
talk the fight would be over right there
that's a broken nose probably a
concussion and Jake Gyllenhaal would
fall and get beat to death um but
because he in this movie is a UFC
champion maybe that was not the case I
didn't had to sit down and build a
program that would ultimately build the
foundation of the Dalton
character oh the workout finally Men's
Health generally we spend a few minutes
each session moving trying to get the
Core Body to mature up few minutes I
love that I don't have any problem with
Mobility drills I do some myself they're
very minimal and the few minutes is dope
because if it takes longer than a few
minutes you're wasting your time most
Mobility is built through compound full
range of motion Ultra deep stretch
lifting and whatever other really
intense yoga or Pilates you want to do
on the side which requires its own time
investment Mobility drills are cool as a
great warm-up and it just takes a few
minutes it's awesome it checks the
warm-up box and the slight Mobility
enhancement box if it's taking you
longer than gee 15 or 20 minutes you're
doing something wrong you're wasting a
lot of
time the protus is an amazing piece of
equipment used mostly by performance
centers to help train athletes in every
plane of motion and also to help
increase power production
whoa that's like the handle you get to
drive theing Mech Warrior thing that
you're inside in theing Matrix if you're
training for that I guess it's real
Sports specific um it's interesting that
like it allows you to Vector Force side
to side and forward kind of neat kind of
neat we use it primarily for priming the
nervous system proppr reception learning
movement patterns and a lot for warming
up joints and metabolic
training uh that's all right on this
overvalued but right on boxing moves
help train rotational power and build
core strength uh that's also correct a
bad Men's Health all right isometrics
are a staple here at rise Movement we
use them all the time to help increase
strength and stamina at different joint
angles oh God isometrics are one of the
worst objective ways to
train I'm not entirely sure why you need
to increase stamina at certain joint
angles technically speaking there's an
infinite number of joint angles between
something like here and something like
here if you train at only very specific
angles with isometrics you do get that
sort of specificity response if you want
to be ultra strong right here it's good
to train right here but if you do
Dynamic work which means you have a
concentric component and an Ecentric
component then you get stronger and
develop more General ability to have
stamina through that entire range of
motion and because acting for physical
roles is such a diverse thing you have
to basically be totally in charge of
your body you guys see that
athleticism you have to be totally in
charge of your body and be able to
master it through every conceivable way
it can be moved and that means that
Dynamic full range of motion often
compound barbell and dumbbell and
machine resistance training is really
the best way to get at this uh isometric
holds aren't that hard they train
something oddly specific and um just
don't transfer super well to athletic
performance nor do they build as much
muscle mass and build nearly as much
strength as Dynamic training and they
because they don't take you through full
range motion don't um prepare your
joints for that kind of pounding and let
me tell you there is no avoiding hard
training if you want to grow but if you
want to grow the most your training
needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
[Music]
results it's just better overall to do
Dynamic shit because it's better for
your joints makes them stronger makes
them more resilient your muscles etc
etc grow holds build midback strength
and shoulder stability so do Dynamic
rows but they also build way more muscle
and way more movement competence and way
more insurance that your joints will
continue to be strong which this doesn't
build all that much and I doubt that you
at home as men Men's Health assumes are
are training to build midback strength
and shoulder stability do you have a
problem with shoulder stability can you
imagine talking to someone at the gym
like hey man what's your name again he's
like Kyle bro what's up Kyle what you in
here for bro and he's like man just
trying to work on my uh midback strength
and shoulder stability like oh I see do
you have like a Handler did you run away
from an insane asylum that would be my
next question so odd odd Flex most of
the sets that we do are time sets we try
to keep his work capacity up whatever
the is happening here is sure shit not
work capacity does Jake Gyllenhaal look
to you like he's pushing as hard as he
can or remotely close no it looks like
well he's kind of enslaved by the
Ottoman Empire and is pushing something
purposelessly in no work required when
the guards are just laughing at him
that's what the that looks like to me
and it looks like he's sandbagging too
no offense I don't mean to call anyone
out but sled work is really good for
getting awesome at pushing and pulling a
sled outside of that it has very little
transfer to much of anything else
something like squats and shoulder
presses would do whatever job you think
sleds do better than what sleds
do to that end if you're going to use
sled work to get better at sled pushing
and pulling you got toing try which
means you got to move those goddamn feet
and push the shit faster or there needs
to be a huge range of motion involved
with your step and a lot of grunting it
just it just looks like we're getting
some work done which does technically
build work capacity but regular cardio
running on a treadmill dare I say
lifting weights with short rest
intervals through huge ranges of motion
that builds way more work capacity and
burns more calories and gets you jacked
and gets joint resilience up in a way
that sled work at this pace just fuing
doesn't it's just like this thing that
Hollywood does a lot would you like make
something look cool and make it look
hard without it actually doing a good
job at training you the way you're
supposed to be trained and it's not
actually that hard it's like rif with
the shit it's awful I fucking hate it
godamn it we always keep the heavy
primitive work did you say primitive you
guys I did actually examined the
anthropological record just yesterday
and while we do see cave paintings
people hunting gazelle we have yet to
see someone do a safety
squat
all right if you like how this is going
and you desperately want to see more
unrated Tri XX content I don't know if
you can promise that we'll definitely
try and you have spare money we have a
member section and if you join to be a
YouTube member then you can get tons of
other videos super sciencey in-depth
stuff for you serious folks and extended
editions of videos just like these
including the extended edition of this
one so give it a click and uh click away
and click click click and make me money
God damn it my Butlers need to buy more
sports cars for me to occasionally look
at while uh figuring out if I want a
platinum or goldplated mustache next
whether it's squats or deadlifts the
variations thereof we want to keep the
muscle coordination at a high squats and
deadlifts require a very small amount of
muscle coordination these are some of
the easiest lifts you can do in the
world Olympic weightlifting requires
substantially more muscle coordination
and you know what requires even more
combat training like ostensibly they
were doing to get him in shape for the
scoll and get him ready to do some sort
of fall combat so squats and deadlifts
are really good for building size in the
lower body and through the back they're
really good at building overall strength
but like coordination and all that shit
uh movement complexity this just a very
simple movement man there's like three
joints involved in each one that and
they it's really slow and very
predictable and the same every single
time um also he's not going very deep I
wanted to like this I really did safety
bar squats says Men's Health blast your
legs without challenging shoulder
Mobility that's true all right grip work
is essential As It Seems to be one of
the limiting factors in the gym you guys
know how you can get all of the limiting
factors of your grip to completely
disappear and yes this is sponsored but
yes I do actually believe is true vers
grips is a product that is much like a
strap that goes around and wraps around
the bar it attaches directly to your
wrist and once it wraps around the bar
and you put your hand over it it is made
of some kind of mystery sticky material
that I think they found in a crashed
alien spaceship ship in Nevada in 1946
but basically your arm will rip the off
off your body before that shit lets go
if you use Versa grips in the gym on
your pulling and shoulder exercises you
will not be limited by grip and you
don't have to spend a lot of your
precious time training forarms unless
you want jacked forarms and here's
another thing you cannot get forearms
strong enough to truly remove them as a
limiting factor if you're developing
your back and shoulders as well as you
can a little while back I was doing
strict lateral raises to just at
parallel with 60 lb for sets of 15 60 lb
in each hand there is no way iing pinch
grip 60 lb that's so goddamn much and my
forearms are jacked but the thing is my
shoulders are more jacked your shoulders
are bigger than your forearms and your
back is way bigger than stronger there's
nobody that can't enhance their pull-up
and row and deadlift and stiff like a
deadlift ability with using Versa grips
there's just nobody that can say okay I
don't really need the versus I just need
my hands if that's the case you're back
shoulders are fing weak my man if you
get yourself some verses you can
eliminate this entire problem also chalk
eliminates most of the problem God damn
it so forearm drills really drills it's
just forearm training first of all I
don't know why this is called a drill
but it's dope or whatever it just so
happens to be that that's not really the
reason you would train forums you would
train forums to make them bigger and
stronger and juicier in their own rate
but if you have a limiting factor
problem Link in the description I guess
because vers grips is uh is how to do
that shit for real
here we see some examples more relatable
to MMA training keeping the body in
check with offset loading and movements
more imperative to
sport offset loading this is okay to
do because of the offset it's going to
take you a little bit more effort to
balance and that balance and adjustment
effort is going to reduce how much you
can push your legs and because Men's
Health here says lunges build leg
strength they build less of it when
you're offset the way you build size and
strength best is when you're very well
balanced when you're off balance your
body decides it's not going to activate
as much of the muscle as it usually does
and you don't activate as much of it and
as much of it does not get stronger and
as much of it does not grow so it's okay
to do this but what I would prefer is
that they kept the training pretty
conventional in the gym compound barbell
dumbbell and Machine Heavy Basics and
then got uh Jake Gyllenhaal into and I
know it sounds crazy an MMA gym to do
MMA drills with the MMA guys couple
months of that shit he's going to look
real competent on camera without having
to do a bunch of bagery whatever he's
carrying like a Scott was that a heavy
bag he's carrying Jesus Christ without
doing that shit and interfering with his
Weight Workout there's a way to make
this more efficient when you're training
for MMA shit you do MMA shit when you're
training in the gym you do gym shit this
is kind of that weird in between Zone
it's not the best for either one it's
important to keep the stimuli broad with
variations of reps sets load Lo and
different tempos
false JK that's totally fine except the
Swiss bar press is a great movement
however oh and SX is a great company but
a floor press definitely as Men's Health
has said here limits lets you train
chest heavy by limiting range of motion
but while it lets you train your chest
heavy thus putting more stress on your
elbows and shoulders it actually trains
it for less of a muscle growth benefit
because the Deep stretch does a lot of
muscle growth benefit that you skip out
on if you do this for literally partial
reps in addition if you want to get good
at being sort of a combat athlete you
have to be strong in every range of
motion you can think of because if you
put yourself into that range of motion
in movement you have to be safe and
strong there that is what we mean by
Mobility strength through a really high
degree of range of motion and if you're
fighting a real person in real life they
may put you into positions in which you
do not want to feel uncomfortable or not
super strong so for example if someone
is on top of you and you always stop
your Skull Crushers here and they push
your hands down and they're on top of
you to here you may be
uncharacteristically weak here so if you
do full range of motion Skull Crushers
when you get here you could hit bump
push them out take the top side and
start hurting them in a way that's
legally defensible in your context but
yeah uh the floor press is aing dog shit
exercise the diet part of this is really
critical critical for maintaining and
looking a certain way correct it's not
something that's sustainable
is he pushing one of my cars how the did
he get that the Perry workout nutrition
from Biotest The Surge uh sponsored by
Biotest I love it my man really kept us
going gave us the fuel that we needed
for these workouts and the post-workout
nutrition from Rise 311 protein that
started in the kitchen and ended up
being a great product so we got it out
there is J Gyllenhaal like partnered
with these companies was that his voice
or was that the trainer guy's voice
still the trainer right uh all right you
got to WRA your brand my man respect
you're going to have a great trainer a
great program wait that was all they
said about
diet yeah there was a chicken breast
flipped at one point some shots of UFC
and him pushing a car and then two
supplement
plugs that tells me everything I need to
know about his diet thanks Men's Health
we keep things in balance with push pull
rips uh what do you mean balance I don't
understand what that means
don't worry you don't understand what it
means either followed by my favorite
some primitive climbing Sprints
primitive climbing Sprints there's
nothing primitive about climbing Sprints
the Versa climber was not available in
primitive
times this would be something if you got
really good at would help you last
through multiple rounds of real fighting
and real MMA training um he's not doing
that though so I'm not exactly sure why
the fuck this is being done
that was
fun that was
fun things I didn't like first let's end
a high
note the inclusion of a bunch of funky
moves and offloaded Carries and sled
pushes and pulls generally not a good
use of time to get the body you want and
the athletic ability that you want it's
better to do more conventional lifting
and um stick to working with MMA people
to get M ma
abilities so that is what it is the
usual Highwood BS reared its ugly head
again but there were some good stuff I
do like the intensity he brought to the
training a lot of consistency brought to
training and the fact that he was
preparing for like a year is really
really awesome which speaks to the idea
that anything that's worth doing is
going to take some work and then it's
going to be awesome so I'm going to
grade this as God damn you Hollywood out
of 10 I've been Dr Mike click on things
buy things like follow
subscribe oh and go watch the movie the
movie is sweet see you guys next time
all right that was fun hopefully you
guys had fun too maybe we learn a little
something who knows right over here is
going to be a video that the YouTube
algorithm with all of its wisdom thinks
you should click on for the fun to
continue so that 8 hours later you have
no idea where you are but you went down
an rpk hole benefit you get to have some
fun and maybe it'll destroy your
life cost is we get paid while you watch
our videos I have no idea what I'm
saying see you guys next time