as well as increasing your mood by
releasing endorphins and oh endorphins
you mean endorphins motherucker JK but
seriously all jokes all love and respect
does it make you feel good to be in the
cold tub because endorphins are released
unequivocally however why are endorphins
released because they're generally
released in response to you feeling bad
you feel like for a while your
body's like we got to make you feel
better you get out of the C tub and by
then your body's trying to make you feel
better it secretes a shitload of
endorphins and then you feel great for
some amount of time after the net
balance of how you feel may be rather
the same if in your particular case you
don't hate the cold tub a ton but
afterwards you feel incredible by all
means cold tub away the vast majority of
people will find the process to be a
nuisance and the benefit to be a I think
I feel okay now that I'm not in the cold
and thus probably shouldn't get into the
cold tub I'm definitely in that second
group of people but I have plenty of
friends that love the cold tub for its
own Spirit reasons not because it
improves your health Aton but because it
can be a a nice thing to wake you up and
that's totally fine by itself