[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to perform
the front squat with perfect technique
but before we get into the technique
itself now let's have a quick look at
the main biomechanical differences
between the front squat and the back
squat first so with really any squat
variation we're gonna be training
simultaneous knee extension where the
quads straighten the legs out and hip
extension where the glutes straighten
the hips out as you can see in this
figure from dr. Bret Contreras
biomechanics book you can see that in
both variations the barbell must remain
centered over the middle of the foot so
when the bar is positioned to the front
of the body the only way to maintain
that balance is to keep a more upright
back posture so notice how the back
squat also has the lifter leaning more
forward while the front squat has the
lifter more upright and this is huge
because it's actually the main
difference between the two and because
of this you can see that the front squat
forces the quads to work a bit harder
but most importantly it forces the upper
back to work much harder to maintain
that upright posture so anyone with any
real experience with the front squat
will tell you that you'll almost always
fail the lift because your traps and
rhomboids fail to keep the upper spine
extended not because your quads or
glutes give out and while this may sound
like a downside I think it's actually an
upside because it means that the front
squat is going to help strengthen the
weak points of the back squat making it
in my opinion the single best accessory
movement for developing raw squat
strength now it comes to muscle
activation patterns one 2015 study from
Contreras and colleagues found that the
front squat presents a similar training
stimulus to the back squat despite
requiring lighter loads so a big
advantage of the front squat is that you
can get the same basic hypertrophic
stimulus as the back squat while using
lighter weights which might reduce
injury risk over time so I'd recommend
loading the front squat in a low to
moderate rep zone something around 6 to
8 reps if you load more heavily than
this it'll be tough to maintain good
form as your upper back becomes a
limiting factor and if you do higher
reps with lighter weight it'll probably
tax your aspire tree system
much more than your muscular system
which isn't the goal now there are three
different grips or rack positions that
you can use for the front squat my
number one most recommended option is
the Olympic grip and here you want to
rest the bar just behind the shoulders
so that the bar actually makes contact
with the front of your neck now this
will probably feel uncomfortable at
first but if you feel like you're being
slightly choked the bar is actually
probably in the right position now
rather than holding the bar in the palm
of your hands most lifters let the bar
rest in the first two or three fingers
only with the hands being just outside
the shoulders now from here you want to
drive your elbows up until your humerus
or upper arm is parallel to the floor so
from the front your elbows should be
pointing straight ahead and this is
gonna be your starting rack position for
the Olympic grip now not everyone is
going to have the shoulder or wrist
mobility to get into the right position
with the Olympic grip so there are two
other options the first is the strap
technique where you loop a pair of
straps around the bar and then grip the
tail end of each strap allowing your
elbows to stay up even if your mobility
is more limited still I see this as more
of a short-term solution and if you're
unable to get into that starting rack
position comfortably you may want to
work on your wrist and shoulder mobility
so you can perform the lift without the
use of lifting aids eventually another
common alternative is the cross grip
where you place the bar in the same
position up against the neck with the
arms positioned out in front of you and
then you just cross the arms over on top
of the bar and this can work fine
however the bar tends to be less and
balanced and stable and it can be much
more difficult to keep your elbows up as
you fatigue which might cause you to
lean too far forward but still as long
as you're not approaching failure I do
think this is a technique that has
worked for many lifters but since I
think the Olympic grip is the best this
is the one I'm going to be using to
demonstrate here personally to help get
my elbows into that elevated position
I'll really crank my elbows up and
forward really exaggerating that cube
during my setup as my upper arms come
into that ground parallel position from
here you want to unwrap the bar by
driving your hips forward mindfully
keeping the elbows up take three steps
back and plant your feet with about a
fifteen to thirty degree foot flare and
you should squat with a stance that
feels comfortable
to you but in general just make sure
that your feet are at least wider than
shoulder-width but not so wide that it
prevents you from hitting appropriate
depth or causes your hips to shoot back
take a deep breath into your diaphragm
which you'll hold on the way down and
before initiating the descent push
slightly up on the bar while extending
your upper back by thinking about
driving your chest up and then initiate
the descent by thinking about sitting
straight down not back this means you
should be breaking at the knees in the
hips at the same time or you can allow
the knees to break slightly first since
sitting back in the front squat is gonna
force the elbows to drop throwing your
balance off you should be pushing your
knees forward and slightly out in the
same direction as your toes and when
viewed from the side
that'll be slightly more forward me
travel in the front squat than the back
squat I'm just totally fine I've covered
the idea that the knees should never go
past the toes and why that's actually a
myth in another video and I'll link that
down below now the front squat should
allow you to reach depth more easily
than the back squat
so when front squatting I don't think
there's really any excuse not to break
parallel or at the very least get to
parallel at the bottom and once you hit
depth without pausing you want to take
advantage of the stretch reflex in the
bottom of the hole immediately reversing
the movement by pressing your big toe
pinkie toe and heel into the ground
evenly while simultaneously driving the
bar up leading with your chest and
elbows on the way up and similar to the
back squat it's important that you still
drive your hips forward on the positive
and if you hit a sticking point on the
way up you want to think about forcing
your hips forward as if trying to get
them underneath the bar while
simultaneously driving the knees out now
but you don't want to exaggerate this to
the point that the knees actually go out
beyond the direction of the toes once
you get back to the top make sure you've
maintained that proper upright rack
position with the elbows high and braced
by taking another deep breath drop it
down between her legs
pushing the knees forward and out and
then explode out of the hole leading
with the chest on the way up now I would
say the most common error that I see on
the front squat is allowing the elbows
to drop down now when you're new to the
front squat this elbow drop will feel
almost like the natural thing to do
especially as you fatigue but this is a
tech
mistake so you want to make sure that
your elbows are up before you unwrap as
you've Teague you want to maintain a
forward or slightly upward I gaze and
then make an extra effort to keep them
elbows up as you descend which is when
they'll be most likely to drop now
another very common error is having the
heels lift up and this can stem from a
number of issues such as not having the
chest or elbows up causing the center of
gravity to shift forward but it can also
come from poor ankle mobility so if you
have trouble hitting depth you might
want to consider doing some light foam
rolling and dynamic stretching for your
calves and ankles before squatting and
then do some static stretching for your
calves after training you can also try
flaring your feet slightly out more
especially if you have them pointing
more straight ahead and a heel the
lifting shoe can also be a big help
since it automatically reduces the
plantar flexion range of motion for the
ankle but you also want to remember that
just because your heels may be tempted
to rise you don't want to necessarily
think about having your weight on your
heels as this might then cause you to
sit back rather than straight down so
ideally you want to have even contact
with the ground triangulate it across
all three pressure points on the foot
now if you're not able to front squat
I'd probably recommend some kind of
machine hack squat as a replacement for
hypertrophy purposes as the more upright
back position is gonna make it more of a
quad dominant lift however it just won't
have that same degree of carryover to
the raw back squat
since the upper back won't be trained to
nearly the same degree that's what will
work for smashing the quads but can't
quite replace the front squat as an
assistance strength movement now goblet
squats are another good replacement but
they may need to be trained with higher
reps at a certain level of advancement
since you're gonna be limited by the
weight of the dumbbells available so
guys that is all that I have for the
front squat for now I'd like to point
you guys in the direction of my back
squat technique Tuesday video if you
guys haven't seen it yet and I always
get asked questions about my training
gear like belts and straps so you can
check out the description box below from
my recommendations and some discounts
there and you can also find front squats
in my 16 week push-pull legs hypertrophy
program if you're looking for a routine
to make all of this more actionable so
I'll put a button to that program over
here next to my head and also have it
linked in the description don't forget
to hit the like button if you guys enjoy
the video subscribe to the channel if
you haven't
ready so you don't miss future technique
Tuesday episodes I'll see you guys all
here
next Tuesday but I am