while we film keep going back and forth
in front of the
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
camera one thing people identify with
when Grizz is lifting is the shouting
the emotion Etc so one thing that comes
to mind for me is has he ever struggled
with mental health with stress and how
does he feel that these things have
impacted him as a
LIF
[Music]
for is there one lifter you think is the
strongest of all time or when you think
about strength and bodies that the most
or it's just
stronger
for when we think about grizzly nowadays
we think about the crazy lifts the zra
shrugs the insane weights was there a
time where Grizzly considered competing
in physique
[Music]
Sports
how have you felt about growing a
following online and do you enjoy the
new found fame or the just the act of
inspiring lifto
metics yeah I stay humble and I awesome
and finally do people around you in
Greece treat you any different now than
before are people around you aware of
your Fame do you find that you enjoy
your daily life more now than
before
thank you guys for watching it's been an
absolute pleasure being with Grizzly
training with Grizzly and just helping
Grizzly get out there a bit more this
was his first ever public appearance
ever and it happened to be in the United
States my brother was with me we did it
don't forget to like subscribe and
comment and we'll see you guys at the
next video peace peace
yeah