hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization G that's a
whole lot of words to say mile reps are
a training modality that works really
well for hypertrophy and we are going to
talk about what it is when it's a good
idea to use and when it's a terrible
idea to use and don't you dare use it
then
[Music]
do you guys remember that one time when
uh
Gandalf
was like uh Lord of the Rings one I
think he showed up to she wasn't named
house uh Scott video guy you know this
no not sauron's house motherfucker are
you serious
um Bilbo Baggins house I think
and uh no yeah Frodo was coming by later
but like Bilbo was like no no man I'm
like I'm gonna take the ring and
um what's his name the magician guy was
like hell no but basically he was like
shit got like sort of dark and light at
the same time
yeah right mushrooms are a hell of a
drug in any case fire reps so how do you
do my reps you choose generally speaking
a weight you can do close to failure for
between 10 and 20 reps in one set
and then you do your first working set
stopping It Whatever rep shy failure you
have for that week three four two one
Whatever week it is
and then as soon as you stop you rest
just long enough to let the burn
dissipate so if you're doing curls my
reps as long as the burn is out as soon
as the burn is out go again
do as many reps as you can until
whatever shy of failure say it's you
know a two RAR week stop or two where I
are let's say you got six reps rest
again go again
you can stop doing these Maya rep sets
either when you've had enough you know
that volume eyes it's enough of a
stimulus Mega pump you're super tired
stop or last case scenario you stop when
the Reps drop below sets of five so if
you like rest and then you do a curl set
and it's three reps that's not
stimulated enough you're probably too
fatigued time to take a break switch
exercises so on and so forth
all right
these work super well technically yes
they are a subcategory of rest pause but
remember rest pause is something that
describes cluster sets cluster sets for
example it's like somebody in Olympic
weightlifting will do a snatch for three
reps and then wait like 60 seconds and
then do another three reps and wait 60
seconds to do another three reps like a
you know a three by three cluster or
something that is also technically rest
pause but rest pause in the area of
hypertrophy basically looks a lot like
my reps that's why we use Bergie
fagrelli uh the gentleman who invented
the term that's why we use my reps
because it's just the most accurate term
to use now my arrests have amazing
upsides some of which include
an amazing stimulus especially to to
muscles that are resistant to stimuli in
straight sets some muscles respond they
need a lot of volume
they need lots of approaches to failure
in a given session and if you just do it
with straight sets it takes you fucking
forever and most of the reps are so far
away from failure and it's not junk
volume it's just not the fastest most
efficient way to achieve your goal but
some muscles are really fast to recover
and really just need a lot for example
forearms for many people biceps delts
traps calves you can mirept living shit
out of those muscles anything short of
my erupts might not be an awesome
stimulus my reps really check that
fucking box
it is also with my reps easy to sum up a
ton of work that just seems daunting if
someone says like hey you got to
approach failure eight times for your
biceps today you're like fuck but if you
can do a whole bunch of that failure
approaching in a relatively fast manner
it's always fun it's always exciting
you're always training really close to
failure after the first set it can make
something super insane be like oh it
gets reasonable we can actually get this
done and then lastly it saves a crapload
of time so if you're super time
constraints Maya reps are a really
really good place to look now there are
downsides there are distinct downsides
so when the upsides make sense use them
in training when the downsides don't
don't use them so here's the first
downside
we have to when we're doing let's say my
rep curls and we're saying okay as soon
as the burn is out of the biceps we go
again we are assuming that all of the
other three check boxes of our when how
long to rest sort of algorithm are
already checked which say cardio is not
a limiting factor if you you're no
longer burning in your biceps
you're breathing like that and the next
set even if it's six reps or whatever
it's not going to be ultra productive
because your cardio is probably holding
you back or the exercise is so nervous
system and so psychologically taxing
like deadlifts you just feel super weak
after you've regained your you know
you're no longer have a ton of
metabolites in your muscles you just
feel super destroyed that next set is
going to be basically hardly anything
and if there's a synergist muscle like
if your forearms are cramping to shit it
doesn't matter what you're going to do
for bicep snacks because your forms are
going to be limiting factors so Maya
wraps are only for exercises
which once the proximate burn of the
exercise goes away of the target muscle
all of the other factors are already
checked for you and notice the examples
they gave forearms who the hell runs out
of breath training their forearms it's a
good joke here about what you do on your
own Saturday night that's right Saturday
night you're on your own I know you
biceps like most people don't run out of
air training their biceps if you do you
need to do more cardio and eat less so
you become leaner delts traps calves
notice quads are not in here can you do
my reps for quads yes but you're going
to have to be much less ambitious you
may do like a set of 15 and then a set
of three and then a set of two and then
fuck off uh yeah it violates our five
reps or so but we just can't recover
enough for that sort of thing so my reps
look a little bit different they're
limited my reps and squats what would
that even look like actual regular
squats uh okay unit set of 15 and then
10 seconds later your quads don't have
any lactic acid you get under the bar
you walk it out you do one grinder
single and you throw up blood comes
splitting out of your eyes and you die
some exercises the cardio is such a
limiting factor they're so fatigue in
your psychology you won't feel strong
after them and there's so many Sinners
just need to calm down before you hit it
again my reps are just no good for them
it's like you post a video like my rap
deadlifts everyone's gonna have a laugh
as you die slowly on camera but for
smaller muscle groups ones you can
isolate a bit more ones that don't have
a huge systemic demand mostly local one
my reps are almost ideal and lastly yes
you can use my reps a ton but remember
because there's so many approaches to
failure potentially like a my website
can easily have six approaches to
muscular failure or close within just
one mile rep set and you say oh well
that's not a big deal it can be really
fatiguing as long as you understand that
you can program it intelligently but if
I see you program like okay like lap
pull Downs my reps rows Maya wraps
upright Rosemary wraps is the whole
program is my reps you may find that
that burns you out on exhaust you before
you can put in as much high quality work
as you want so as long as you don't use
my reps and exercises in which the
systemic limiters are way way too
prominent a lot of compound multi-joint
exercises big muscle groups deadlift
squats presses things like that as long
as you use them there and as long as if
you use them you don't overuse them so
they beat the shit out of you my reps
are amazing I highly recommend them we
have other videos that talk about it and
give some examples in the meantime go
try them out and hey tell a friend about
them here's my sort of job for you today
homework you could call it what the fuck
I thought you I thought I graduated
school here's the deal go through your
phone book in your phone
find a friend you haven't talked to in
years maybe a conversation that would
even be awkward tax them better yet call
them tell them about my reps and hey
tell them Dr Mike thank you