you are probably not as fat as you think
and although this sounds like one of
those ironic intros it is not this is
true body positivity evidence-based body
positivity but joking aside you may be
overthinking your fatness at least from
a health standpoint
[Music]
Dr P here with another video this time
having a brief look at what actually
means to be too fat for health reasons
and I know many of you here want to look
jacked and want to be lean to look a
certain way totally fine as long as you
truly want to look a specific way and
you're not doing it because you feel you
need to look that way for health reasons
or for whatever because Society or
Instagram requires you to I'm here to
give you the actual Insight scoop in an
area of literature that as a fat s
myself I had to look into because I care
about being healthy I like the way I
look I am comfortable walking around at
20 24% boyat depending on who you ask AK
depending on dexa balod and uh Bia Bia
was 20 balod was 22 DEA was 24
but in all
seriousness this is a video for those of
you out there that look at yourselves
and then think okay I'm fine with how I
look but I feel like I may be too fat
because whatever Greg duet told me I'm
too fat I'm not sure if that if he says
that or U the Internet calls me too fat
because I'm not leaning up for
bodybuilding standards or whatever let's
have a look at what the actual data
shows first things first if we look at
total body fed percentage and we look at
metaanalytic data that has looked at
over hundreds of thousands of
individuals and I'll Focus specifically
on men at least for the time being we
see that contrary to popular belief the
bifi percentage associated with the
lowest risk of all cause mortality so
death from all causes is somewhere
around 22 to
24% keep in mind that you may see a
graph on the screen now which
essentially shows that as you get leaner
your chances of dying actually increase
versus getting somewhat fatter but it's
important to note that there co-founders
there that are probably impacting those
relationships potentially people that
are sick malnourished and so on and so
forth getting below 20 and 15% body fat
is not going to magically kill you or
make it more likely for you you to diet
terms and conditions apply it's
important to also note that there comes
a point where you do become too fat for
health reasons and fat does become a bit
of a taking time of to a certain extent
keep in mind that if you are too fat and
obviously how that fat is distributed on
your body also plays a role which I'll
touch on a second you are essentially
increasing your chances of a bunch of
diseases and obviously death from a
bunch of different causes but it is
important to look at the relative risk
that comes with that and understand that
it's a relative risk but you obviously
need to take in consideration in the
context of what what is the absolute
risk and then see okay what is the
actual risk that we're looking at here
you're not going to all of a sudden die
if you are somewhat overweight and you
are above certain cutoff points for body
fat percentage and waste circumference
it's just that you have the higher
chance of something happening if we're
talking slightly above 24% for males yes
things start to not look that great but
again same with sleep same with a lot of
health related stuff you're not all of a
sudden going to die just because you
happen to be overweight for 2 years
especially if you're also doing a bunch
of other things outside of managing your
body
composition it's also important to note
that bodyi distribution plays an
important role as far as body and health
is concerned it's important to note that
another thing that you need to take in
consideration is your waste cumference
your waste c conference is a good
indicator of visceral at deposity
something that may be a greater
predictor for all sorts of health
related issues versus just looking at
body percentage alone or BMI itself
especially for many of you that watch
and are lifters so if we were to look at
the absolute values of waste
circumference and their um relationship
with all CA mortality things are looking
much better than you'd assume for men
even if you are above 37 in you're still
totally fine uh as far as your risk for
all CL mortality goes based on some of
the scientific data however more
recently there's been an easier way to
sort of assess your risk and that's
looking at your waste to height ratio
which has been shown in some cases to be
a better predictor of all cause
mortality than just waist circumference
and you essentially look at your height
and centimeters divided by two and that
gives you the value that your waist
should be in cenm for you to be
absolutely bang on at this 0.5 level you
are totally in the clear if you are
there or slightly below but if we look
at the current literature even if you're
above slightly above a bit above like as
I said before yes your risk will start
increasing after in point but you need
to be substantially above that point for
you to see an extreme risk in our knce
people have lost their standards of what
being actually fat from a medical
standpoint really means and for health
specifically so if you happen to find
yourself at that fluffier and definitely
not lean for bodybuilding standards
modifi percentage but you feel good and
you haven't exceeded those cut off
points by a tone and obviously you're
faing healthy and your blood work is in
order then there's not really much need
for you to cut besides your own personal
preference and wanting to look more
defined some potential terms and
conditions like if you are just at the
cut off point for both body fat and
waste circumference measurements and
you're somebody who finds it easy to
gain weight and you know that you'll
have a few months where things will be
super busy or you may miss out on the
gym or you're likely to gain weight and
then have a hard time losing it maybe
it's best to have a decent amount of
space before you reach those cut off
points however overall you do not need
to lose your mind you may not be as fat
as people have you think for your
overall health sure aesthetically if you
are not happy with what you're seeing
change it as simple as that but don't
feel like you necessarily have to be
leaner because you're somewhat of a you
know you're lazy or you're not dedicated
or just because you don't don't have a
six-pack you're not fit enough that's it
true body positivity evidence-based
check out the full papers in the
description below plenty of signs today
and the next time somebody calls you fat
tell them you know why I'm fat cuz every
time mying mother she gives me a cookie
don't forget to like subscribe hit the
notification icon and Dr pack for rasco
apparel for 10% off you know how it is
they had to include me for certain
adversity quara to be met they needed a
bold bearded Fat Greek in order for them
to not get cancelled but I'm canceling
them right now with this freestyle outro
I'll leave it at that shout out to
Rascal buy their clothes honestly
thought clothes my favorite clothes No
Cap not saying it cuz I've proven it
anyways
[Music]