okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to perform
the lateral raise with perfect technique
i think that the lateral raise is one of
the if not the most important isolation
exercise out there from a physique
development perspective because first of
all capped lateral delts are going to
create an x-frame appearance through
wider shoulders and the illusion of a
smaller waist and second most of the
basic heavy compound exercises just
aren't that effective at targeting the
lateral deltoid for example this 2013
study found that the free weight lateral
raise and cable lateral arrays both
elicited very high levels of side delt
activation while the shoulder press and
bench press both had comparably very
minimal activity so in order to optimize
growth of the side delt in particular i
think we probably should be isolating it
but before we jump into training
technique itself let's have a quick look
at what muscles we're going to be
targeting with this movement first so
with the lateral raise we're going to be
training primarily shoulder abduction so
raising your arm out to the side and
this will be handled mainly by the
lateral deltoid so unless you do the
lateral raise completely out to the side
there will also be some degree of
shoulder flexion occurring as the
dumbbells come slightly forward which
means the front delts will be active to
a degree and the scapular upward
rotation component will be handled by
the upper traps although as we'll see we
can help take the traps out of the
movement with proper cueing now before
we get into the basic dumbbell lateral
raise i just want to say up front that
my personal favorite variation is the
egyptian cable lateral raise where you
pass the cable between your legs and
lean into the direction of the rays
leaning away is based on some data from
mcmahon atoll showing that the middle
deltoid is more important near the end
range of motion whereas the
supraspinatus of the rotator cuff is
more involved near the beginning and
passing the cable between your legs just
allows for a more comfortable position
where you don't need to worry about the
cable hitting your body on the way up
there will also be more consistent
tension with the cable than with the
dumbbell since the dumbbell moves in a
circular resistance path meaning it'll
reach peak tension at the top with
minimal tension at the bottom however it
isn't perfectly clear what the
implications are of this for hypertrophy
so my best advice would be to just pick
a variation that you like that you can
feel working your delts and just get
better at it over time but because the
dumbbell lateral raise is the most basic
and easily accessible it's the variation
we'll be covering in detail here now
there are also many other creative ways
that you can do the same basic movement
with bands machines kettlebells and so
on and there's nothing necessarily wrong
with experimenting i am a fan of
exercise creativity but i also think
that there's a limit to how much extra
benefit you're going to get out of
making the movement just more and more
convoluted or ridiculous and since this
is a single joint isolation movement
with a long lever arm we want to be
using lighter weights in a higher rep
zone something around 10 to 20 or even
as high as 30 reps and since there will
come a point where further load
increases will just result in inevitable
form breakdown at a certain point which
is usually around 15 to 30 pound
dumbbells rather than focusing on
increasing the weight i think we should
instead focus on progressively
overloading by improving technique
improving the mind muscle connection or
improving the pump one of the immediate
goals with the lateral raise is to
reduce momentum as much as possible
especially while you're still perfecting
proper form and one way to do this is by
performing the movement seated however i
find the bench can sometimes get in the
way so you can also just keep your
glutes flexed throughout the range of
motion which is going to prevent
excessive movement at the hips so you
want to grip the dumbbell with your
index finger up against the head of the
dumbbell with your pinky closer to the
middle of the handle unless you find
that awkward and this is going to force
the side delts to work harder by
increasing the internal rotation moment
at the top many people find a thumbless
grip more comfortable here but i would
say either a full grip or a false grip
both are fine since the weight is going
to be light anyway if you notice a
clicking sound in your shoulder you can
try flexing or pulling your lats in in
between reps and based on my experience
this can help reduce it in many cases
you want to make sure that your shoulder
blades are retracted and then you want
to initiate the concentric by leaning
out and up with your elbow rather than
lifting the dumbbell straight out to the
side you should raise the dumbbell in
the scapular plane around 15 to 30
degrees to the front when viewed from
the top and throughout the positive you
should think about only flexing your
lateral delt to move the weight while
keeping your forearms and upper arm soft
and there are a few cues that i
personally find helpful for engaging the
lateral head at first i have to think
about pulling the distal or outer aspect
of the delt toward the medial or inner
aspect throughout the positive i also
think about sweeping the weight out
rather than just lifting the weight up
where sweeping out is going to help get
the side delts more involved over the
traps which get more involved as you
sort of shrug the weight up and once i
clear the first half of the positive
i'll slightly internally rotate by
raising my pinky slightly higher than my
thumb which might shift emphasis away
from the front delt and onto the side
delt however research has suggested that
this cue may present an increased
impingement risk so you'll want to use
it at your own discretion and if you do
use it just make sure that your shoulder
blades are retracted you're lifting in
the scapular plane and ending the range
of motion once your elbow reaches
shoulder height and actually just before
recording the video here uh speaking
with greg knuckles of the mass research
review panel and he suggested that
because the fibers of the lateral delt
run in a bunch of different directions
it might make the most sense to do some
reps with internal rotation some reps
with a neutral grip and some with
external rotation just to make sure all
of the fibers are being stimulated to a
significant degree so that may be
something worth trying out for yourself
now the negative is going to be a
controlled reversal of the positive and
as a more advanced technique you can
keep constant tension on the delts by
starting another rep without having the
dumbbells come to a full stop at the
bottom but i would say that as you
master form you probably should release
tension at the bottom and initiate every
rep from a quick pause which is gonna
help prevent any swinging or momentum as
you begin to fatigue so i would say by
far the most common error that i see
here is just going too heavy in my
experience even at the high level most
people won't be able to maintain proper
form with dumbbells heavier than 30
pounds or so and as you begin to load
more heavily at a certain point you'll
just progressively get more assistance
from other muscles that are themselves
better trained and better targeted with
other movements um so for some point of
reference here you can see kai green at
300 pounds doing high rep working sets
with 20 pound dumbbells so for an
isolation movement like this you really
want to make sure your posture is
consistent and once you start to fatigue
at the end of the set it should come as
a result of you not being able to lift
your arms to the same height with
everything else being held in the same
position now i'm not against controlled
cheating as an advanced technique but i
do think that it should be used as an
advanced intensity technique which is
something that i'm going to be covering
in a separate advanced technique series
after technique tuesday finishes up
sometime around summer now another
common error that i see here all the
time is to essentially turn the lateral
rays into a front raise but you want to
remember that the scapular plane is only
about 15 to 30 degrees forward from
perpendicular so you shouldn't be
lifting the dumbbells excessively out in
front which is going to defeat the whole
purpose of the exercise as it just
further emphasizes the front delt which
is already going to be hit to a very
large degree from any bench pressing or
overhead pressing in your program now
when it comes to alternatives apart from
variations that use say cables bands or
machines i actually personally don't
think there is much of a replacement for
the lateral raise now when performed
properly and upright row can hit the
lateral delts quite well however as a
compound movement it is going to get the
traps more heavily involved and we're
going to be covering that in detail in a
future technique tuesday episode so
that's all that i have guys for the
lateral raise if you enjoyed the video
please leave me a thumbs up don't forget
to subscribe so you don't miss future
technique tuesday episodes and i'll see
you guys all here in the next one for
the hip thrust