I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses given me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
hey folks welcome back to the webinar
dr. James Hoffman with my colleague and
super best buddy dr. Mike is Rotel heavy
sigh I feel you okay so we were just
ranting about like how shitty our days
have gone and for all you California
people you'll appreciate this
I was about to smog my car today because
that my registration renewal came up it
was like okay well to renew your
registration you gotta get your smog I
like my smog my check engine light comes
on on my card was totally randomly which
is like instant smog fail so then I got
to go to the dealership and like get my
fucking car fixed and they're like well
there's like a five day wait like all
this but they gave me a rental car
because it turns out my my Jeep had like
two or three recalls on it and they're
like bro I was like I didn't know yeah
and so they're like we're gonna give you
a rental car I'm like okay cool they
give me the fucking biggest man truck
you know like big man with big black
truck ever it's like a fucking Ram quad
cab it's low oh dude I'm like what so
I'm driving around this ridiculous ass
truck for the next couple of days well
my car that's crazy that a man at least
California is not a place of tight
parking spaces a southern if you were
the Bay Area you just completely fucked
yeah so it's kind of funny but man
California bureaucracy you know what
cars it's like fucking I can't even like
get a fucking renew my registration
without going through like ten steps you
know what I mean remember we lived in
Tennessee I literally went to the
registration office and they just handed
me a license plate they were like yeah
here's 20 bucks here you go like boom oh
that's so sweet
yeah sweet yeah you only have to put up
with Callie for so much longer that's
right we closed in like ten days mmm
Yahoo come alright shall we get to it
let's get to we got our relatively uh
kind of short list today so we'll do
some a YouTube maybe just have a short
one today okay so coming up first is
Kevin D Farley what is you ready for
politically incorrect joke James is
here's calm no does he like the D no I
was gonna go another way with that much
more incorrect Kevin
I want to apologize about what happened
to your brother Chris Oh Oh still juicy
too soon still too soon
I guess Kevin's probably have an age if
I had to guess that Chris Farley could
have been his father more than those
brother yeah okay
did you see the the semi recent Adam
Sandler Netflix special no so he did
like a kind of it was kind of a weird
like hodgepodge of like various events
that he did and he played like a bunch
of songs and did some of a stand-up and
it was fine you know like I liked him it
was it was good but then out of nowhere
he does a Chris Farley tribute and it
was like too much it was like no no no
this isn't what I was signed up for
laughs not this not crying over Chris
Farley not cool yeah
coach Roy was for the best he was the
best of what he did all right Kevin D
Farley no relation I assume says hey
Docs I'll admit that I've broken the
rules and avoided the hypertrophy
template and I'm using customized
version for myself and only myself well
Brooke no real rules and not all the
time
you you own that product do it off buck
you want with a I've change around the
workouts for the drop-down menus at a
rep range 5 to 30 oh I see what using 3
hours instead of future fail that's
basically the same thing same thing
those are synonymous okay but I kept the
rating system and a few other things I
understand formulas matters for Excel so
this isn't too hard for me to do but
when I played around with a formula I
kept asking myself a couple of questions
I've added a week to the original four
week meso extending the third week of to
our er to a fourth week of to our our
and then a fifth week of one hour on a
deal owed week one three are 85% of
turnaround week to three hour plus
increasing weight week three to our IR
plus increasing weight week four to AR
again uh interesting no increase in
weight a week four mm so we did it on
week two and three but not on week for
not only five week five one on IR for
week five one our IR would it be prudent
lmao
can I sound more like a politician no
worries according to allow McDonald I
sound like a politician who cares for
some things yeah I thought that was
actually a compliment at my ability to
be intelligent and flexible situations
lmao I sound more like politician for me
to go to 95% of my 10 RM 85 let's see is
this considered overreaching also can I
change week ones 85% of Turner I'm
starting point to 75% or 80% of my time
so the super fast answer here is twofold
one you can start your first week with
anything between 30% and 80% of your 1rm
or close to 80 maybe even 85 and then we
just recommend that your jumps week to
week to week be very small somewhere in
the range of one to two and a half
percent probably no more than that so as
long as you're doing that then totally
now that 95% of turnaround what we don't
want you to do is take that number out
of a hat and put it on week five yes
because it has to be you don't want to
do this thing where you like squatting
300 squad at 305 squatting 310 squatting
330 like that will get you hurt and
there's actually a good physiological
rationale and plenty of good data to
suggest that large spikes in either
volume or load or relative effort can be
particularly injurious right so if
you're not if used to going three rir I
mean go all the way to failures used to
doing
300 pounds you go three thirty if you
see doing five sets you go right to ten
um then the chance of injury goes up
especially the session after that
because this does a basically a
inordinate amount of damage so as long
as you start you can start anywhere you
like between thirteen eighty five
percent you know would recommend say you
know seven five that's totally fine um
certainly your question directly is is
seventy five percent or a returner I was
totally fine oh sorry so I should be
clear thirty that's 30 percent of your
one around
all right so 410 around me maybe
something like fifty percent or
something like that you can do the math
and you know as long as basically as
long as your first set of week one first
set reps on exercises don't exceed like
thirty reps you're good to go right and
so you'll be able to figure out real
quickly if you lift that woman you could
just adjust the next set you know and
then just make sure your increases in
weight are
either or non-existence because you
don't have to go up and wait micro to
micro or very small and you're totally
good to go so I would yeah you know if
your question cuz I can't really tell
James and maybe you could help out it
says for me to go 95 percent of my 10 or
M
I assume that's about week five but if
it's about week one the answer is you
can for sure but then you might be
getting super low reps towards the end
of the mesocycle and it just might not
have the best any lists of fatigue ratio
when you're doing sets of even a lot of
sets of 5 that's like you could you know
sits a 5 or fine
technically speaking they're equivalent
in hypertrophy for short periods with
sets of 10 and 15 and so on and so forth
but it's a lot of grinding and if you
repeat that muscle cycle over and over
you probably want to like you know not
dip too far below sets of 8 on average
towards the last movies games yeah
that's how I interpreted what he said as
well and so kind of just to reiterate
what Mike was saying it's not so much of
what percentage that you're using like
if you it's hard for us to say yes 95
percent is the number that is okay it's
more about like where your your reps
generally are falling across sets right
so if you're looking at 95 percent of
your 10 RM can we assume that the first
set is within 6 to 10 reps
prop most likely I think I think most
people would assume that that's probably
pretty reasonable what about set -
that's a big question mark what about
set 3 for whatever else you got going on
for that day that's where we kind of are
like ah right so I think it's fair to
assume like pushing the boundaries of
your 10 RM at least for the first set
you're probably going to be within that
productive like 5 to 10 kind of minimum
threshold that we recommend for the
heavy range but after that it's really
hard to say so don't rely so much on the
like literal percentage recommendations
like as in my computer language numbers
template like so much as make small
adjustments and just make sure that your
reps are falling in the goal rep range
week to week on average for all of your
sets when you are making those
adjustments so some weeks you might not
go up in intensity at all you might only
change you know your reps and reserver
you might even do the same reps in
reserve and same general intensity maybe
just add a rep or two and that's it
that's fine or even add a set right so
don't you don't have to do like a very
linear computational thing across the
way so don't think again just trying to
reiterate don't think of it so much
like these numbers are okay it's more of
what gets me into the rep and the
loading zones that I want to be on
average and then sorry I'm not I ramble
already is this considered overreaching
not inherently right overreaching is
more of a local and systemic phenomenon
not so much on a set like one set basis
though it is feasible that you could
overreach yourself on one set it is
totally feasible but in this context no
it's not sorry for the amount of
questions just released the goddamn
hypertrophy book already a lot of people
been saying that god dam is jokes it's
all jokes I know that shit takes time
thank you for time and answer as well
rp+ you guys get the scoop and I suppose
YouTube gets the spoils as well the main
writing for the book is done James and
Jared's main edits are done I'm
currently two days away from finishing
two sections at the end of the book that
are quick tips or sorry a chapter
summary
it's like 10-point summary and then a
quick guide to program design and then
James is making a paragraph section for
each one of the chapters of how
important each one of the principles is
to the grand scheme like if you fuck up
overload how bad do you have it real bad
like if you fuck up phase potentiation
just don't do it at all how bad do you
have it yeah it's not a big deal you
grow muscle for years and years would
you find all the fine and optimal is two
different things so after that we're
done with pretty much all of the actual
meat potatoes writing and currently dr.
Melissa Davis is starting the real
mean-spirited edit of the book which is
combination content edit and a lot of
grammatical edit as well and not so much
grammatical edit like she doesn't change
what we say she just changed how he says
it so it's less dumb like I would say it
and more like people understand it and
you know James tried his best for that
already but probably Mel's a caliber
above us as far as you know reading
comprehension also she's coming to this
James and I are so ingrained in the
depth of literature that mostly we're
looking for content and were blind to a
lot of grammatically where we already
understand all the stuff
you know I would hope super whelks read
a book about it it's whether you're
writing the book it's tough to as well
as yeah sure it's tough to read a
sentence when you're writing a book and
be like I think that's understandable
like yeah you dumb motherfuckers you
already know everything already
yes like it's like a it's like a
jiu-jitsu blackbelt being like try this
move it's easy you're like easy
motherfucker you got like 18 limbs
moving in five different fucking what
so Mel is super super smart knows our
training super well but isn't you know
so into this literature and into this
understanding that if shit is not
obviously stated to her or I'll put this
way if she'd have stated to her a real
securest nonsensical manner she's gonna
be like this doesn't mean the other
sense to me it probably won't make any
sense to the way way above average RP
reader so she's gonna basically make it
much more elegant and during the time
that she's doing that probably within
the next week or two I'm gonna make all
the graphics for it we already had a guy
professional make all the the graphics
we want and I'm gonna sort of layer them
in and put the stuff and then after I'm
done with that
we basically wait on Mel to do one pass
we throw the graphics in and all of us
do another pass including probably one
other editor and that's it so yeah it
could be ideally it would be about two
to three months in which it comes out
but things come up things happen bigger
projects are the priorities so we'll see
I would I would if it comes out later
than the summer I'd be real surprised if
it comes out in the spring I would be
pleasantly surprised or not surprised
right if it comes out any sooner I'd be
surprised plasma yeah and just first
time like inside scoop so might gave a
really good summary of kind of how a lot
of this process goes but one of the
things that we've been trying to do a
little bit better job of the last couple
books it's kind of the idea of being
bulletproof where I think some of the
first couple of books we let there was
not anything coming no no no not even
that there wasn't really anything
controversial like the first diet book
the scientific principles of strength
training like there wasn't anything
really anything in there that was
contentious in any way that people could
really take take a point to point on
some of the more recent stuff that we've
been doing there are definitely
opportunities for people to do that and
so we we try to pass it through a lot of
filters so that we don't just release a
book right away this Mike was like all
right I got this idea SFR let's
let's just make a book out of it right
and then we bring it up and then our key
all you smart rp+ people go hey here's
like here's all this fucked-up stuff
this is inconsistent like why didn't you
guys think this through right so that's
kind of the idea where we go through and
we try to think of like how could
somebody feasibly and end and with well
intentions take this apart and make it
not true
and that's kind of how we go back and
forth for a little while until we get to
an area where we think like this is
pretty solid there's no major glaring
holes and there's no major counter
points where we would have to submit and
say yes this falls apart without your
point we want it to be not just thought
through but thought through to an extent
where you can read it and not have these
like man I wish they really like this
doesn't make sense like you're gonna
read it very likely and be like man this
sure is complicated because the books
supposed to be complicated by the way
but you're gonna be like man
they've really connected the dots on a
lot of shit so and even like all about
getting a good product we'll leave it
alone and move on sorry but like even
the volume landmarks that was one thing
that we were really proud of and and at
least to my knowledge nobody's really
given it like a one-two punch where it's
like this is where this falls short my
cheeks at all yeah yeah and you know
what I mean the so it was like putting
that out there was definitely a big
undertaking for us and we had to really
think it through and make a bullet proof
and I think we did a pretty good job and
because we did a good job with that now
we can use that idea and say okay well
now that we all mostly agree on this
let's use that to expand into other
ideas like the hyper tree book and SFR
and other other things right and so that
it becomes once we know like one thing
is really secure I don't feel good about
it then we can use it to build up other
things and so that's kind of where we
yeah all right Adrian young it's gonna a
very short question very short answer
so hi I was hoping you could dive into
your thoughts on nutrient timing had gh
peptides in relation to optimal body
composition a combination of GH r p2 and
mod g RF perhaps so good news/bad room
bad news Adrian bad news is I've never
taken any peptides and I have no clue
what the fuck these specific women are I
will say that BP c 157 works really well
for healing connective tissue damage
like from injury it's like I've
literally ever heard of gh RP - I think
that's the one that makes you hungry
like literally this is how fucking
I know about the shit so and a James I
assume none of this rings a bell no but
actually that just that literally just
sparked a conversation with I hat I had
with somebody and that somebody probably
knows who they are
so wink wink boom so here's the deal
what you can do Adrian is sign up for
Broderick Chavez group he has an RP plus
equivalent that's all exclusively about
performance-enhancing supplements and
you will get derided in that group for
asking Maddie questions that's how
hardcore it is but you will get your
questions answered and you can actually
ask them questions for free he is does
Instagram lives all the time Facebook
lives all the time answers incoming
questions when I can tell you from what
he has told me as my supplement coach so
to speak is that the peptides are cool
and they have their uses but nothing
beats high quality lab made modern
growth hormone full peptide so you get
some Sarah stem your way all these
peptides start to look like small fries
but there's a general statement and
there's very good specific uses for some
of these and no fucking clue anytime
have no idea you take them I don't know
shit about igf-1 none of that crap so
Adrian best of luck I would look up rot
or Chavez any way you can find I mean
this pace is easily the best way to ten
bucks or something ten bucks a month for
all the questions you want to ask that's
the guy to go to on that no clue here
sounds good I have no input on that
unfortunately unfortunately all right I
tried to dabble in that world a little
bit and then I was it's like so
overwhelming where you're just like I
don't even know where to start so I'm
not gonna say too much about this lack
of self incrimination is always good I
just and I've said this publicly I have
a few podcasts it really baffles the
fuck out of me when people
recreationally approach sports
supplement use alright I meant like from
a knowledge perspective oh I see yeah
well so for sure so but even from a
knowledge perspective like some people
will dabble in the
knowledge and gear up and you're not you
know you know James you're not using but
like some people who use your like you
like what do you know about this you
know about the heroin approach that
that's cool for sure right but hey
that's at least that's one that like
there's a lot of instant gratification
there right we're like I put this in and
because things happen alright good yes
instant gratification is the way you
live your life absolutely the only
metric that holy shit all right Sean
Morikawa
Ruben when in an alternate universe
Israel and Japan collided only one man
remained I love that joke I never stop
saying it okay kidding it's Sean says
hey guys had some amazing and
well-deserved holidays I hope your 2020
is looking great sorry for the mini wall
of text incoming oh come on
don't apologize dame of you and the new
year wishes
likewise yeah number one if i recall
their general guidelines you guys give
for longest hip her trophy worked out
you take I forgot the exact number but
for the sake of example let's just say
it's 90 minutes is that the time in and
of itself was the actual reason to work
out should be ended
eg physiological factors that camp out
change in 90 minutes we're just most so
that 90 minutes tends to be the amount
of time on average of most individuals
to start reaching excessively high set
numbers it's the volume that's the
reason not the time per se James well
we'll get through this we'll do one
question at a time since it's too long
to go all the way I don't see my answer
this is it's probably 85 15 85 percent
of the reason is just too much work and
at the end it's all drunk volume and 15
I think there is a time limit element
that it's not just that the effort put
in accumulates a lot of fatigue to we're
here fatigue is excessive and the volume
is junk it's that even the time of being
psychologically into the gym training
and other nutritional considerations
start to SAP you away so like for
example you know like watching movies
doesn't make you tired per se but like
if I showed you six hours of Lord of the
Rings you might not pay attention too
much from your Return of the King
because you know Jesus Christ like I've
done the marathon a screen anymore yes
I've done so extended editions right
somebody can ask you like so is it the
fact that it's Lord of the Rings
the fact that you know you can only
watch so much volume of movie it's like
no look if it was fast forwarded I could
watch it all in 30 minutes it's just the
fact that the time of being in a
particular setting with all human
endeavors is delimited and starts to
produce a kind of fatigue or a sub
optimality and ability to exert yourself
hardly you spend enough time in the gym
and you're like I don't fucking want to
be here anymore look I'm not we still
doing here
and and that is definitely a factor but
most of the factors the amount of effort
put in so to put it this way if you just
bullshit with the guys and did like a
working set every 30 minutes could you
train longer than two or three hours and
still benefit yeah probably but after
two or three hours man there's just not
a whole lot of good stuff that happens
the gym because you're just too zoned
out and will be able to especially for
perjury purposes put tension through the
target muscles with the diligence and
focus that involves an optimal gains
because you just want to get the fuck
out James yeah and so I totally agree
with that and then just kind of on the
latter part at whereas 90 minutes tends
to be the exact or the amount of time on
average when most individuals will start
reaching excessively high set numbers so
the idea that's that's partially true
it's not just that they're reading so we
talked about like doing so many sets
that it actually starts to become kind
of less positive diminishing returns
maybe even moving into like nil gains
and even net negative gains right but
really the issue with the duration of
the workout itself isn't so much that as
there's just some time threshold and
this is gonna be different for all
people but we're kind of saying like on
average there is some amount of time
where the amount of like local gains
that you're making from whatever you're
doing it's probably not outweighed by
the systemic fatigue of just keeping
going right and that's kind of what Mike
was also touching on if just like the
mental aspect of being in the game the
physical aspect of being in the game you
start accumulating junk volume basically
the longer the session goes on after the
first like I don't know 20 30 minutes or
so and so then the question is like it's
not that you're necessarily getting
excessively high set numbers and now
you're getting negative returns and all
the subsequent muscles that you're doing
it's really just that you're like
accumulating a lot of junk volume you're
not generating a huge stimulus but you
are generating more and more fatigue
what is the net benefit of the systemic
spillover from doing a really long
session and the local
all kind of junk volume that you're
accruing along the way so it's kind of a
weird intersection of like local gains
versus systemic spillover that's kind of
the issue that I generally see with that
Oh hopefully that made sense mm-hmm all
right number two a question for Mike's
frequency debate with Tim Henriques ha I
said that right hours fucking up Mike
mentioned how after first several shots
of an exercise the fast twitch fibers
are likely to fatigue to keep going so
the intermediate and slower fibers take
on or take over on more subsequent sets
is this regardless of rep range even 5
to 10 in the first set so I'll say that
it is yes the problem is is is after
about 5 sets when they kick out here not
your doing less than 2 reps at that
point if it's 5 to 10 in the first set
after 5 sets or whatever then yeah this
also depends on how hard you're pushing
but usually by that it is regardless of
rep range so what that means really is
instead of being in the 5 to 10 rep
range after enough sets to fatigue so
it's almost like those the faster fibers
when they become fatigued enough to
contribute much less to force production
your force production goes down and thus
you're not able to hit 5 to 10 where you
should have been so yes the answer is
yes B if I'm understanding correctly
this almost sounds auto regulating / too
good to be true as in it sounds like the
fast twitch fibers almost self correct /
automatically get it as much volume as
they can optimally handled and turn off
not the other fibers get their share so
the fast twitch fibers assuming enough
sets pretty much always get their idea
of volume on no unfortunately it's not
true so the correct way to phrase this
is that the faster fibers contribute
vastly less force and activate less not
they don't so you actually get the worst
of both worlds successive sets after the
faster twitch fibers no longer
contribute a lot usually are in excess
of their ability to recover oh sorry in
excess of what they they can benefit
from but they still contract more and
more
accrue more and more damage and junk
volume and and that's a circus or it
turns into a really really bad deal so
the autoregulation
does handle some of that essentially I
wouldn't call it autoregulation but the
the sort of self-correcting pattern
absolutely handle some of that but that
doesn't mean you have free range too
after you've trained your faster fibers
for example with heavy work or whatever
work that you can just train your saloon
intermedia fibers as much as you want
because the faster fibers are still
active though just not nearly as active
so you get to a point where at some
point you're faster fibers stop
contributing much and then at some later
point they still contribute some and
they reach their individual M RVs and
then at some later point which I would
not recommend you go the faster fibers
continue to go excessively over there M
RVs in small amounts though I agree with
you that if they kept being active kept
being as active as possible they would
really be even more fucked so this sort
of situation definitely ameliorates how
much for damage and fatigue the faster
fibers can get and does let the
intermediate slow twitch fibers play a
little bit more with higher volumes and
more sets but it doesn't handle it
entirely so you still have to be
unfortunately very very keen on taking
your faster fibers too far which is why
individuals and/or muscle groups with a
preponderance of faster twitch muscle
fibers just cannot handle high volumes
and frequencies even though their lower
fibers can though or they're slower
fibers can the real way to do that
actually would be if you knew that you
had some faster fibers in a muscle and
some slower fibers maybe a lot of slower
fibers the way you could train some of
the slower fibers would actually be to
do a lot of submaximal work that doesn't
all approach failure all the way and do
very high reps 25 to 30 or something
like that and even avoid high velocities
during that time but the thing is is
unfortunate is it if you are so slow or
twitch that you need to do that man you
probably just aren't going to grow a lot
anyway so so that's the deal you know if
you look at it as you know we'd
recommend training in the various rep
ranges the five to ten ten to twenty and
twenty to thirty
the reason that 20 or 30 range is really
cool is that the faster fibers just
don't get much work period out of that
range because they're just not on much
and by the time they want to turn on
they're too tired to turn on because
they they they experience a shitload of
fatigue for both from a systemic nervous
and lactic acid so those sets of 20 or
30 probably preferentially favored the
slower fiber types anyway make the best
way to get at the problem of giving
enough to work to all the fiber types
where the intermediate and slow need
more is by doing a variety of rep ranges
of appropriate volumes not just doing a
shitload of more more and more sets at
low reps and thinking ah the slower
fibers will turn on here the faster
fibers well so fast fibers still are on
enough to get super super super super
fucked James yeah and so I like your
idea of that being like an auto
regulatory thing it's not quite it's
more of a self-protective thing because
they were able to keep activating you
would just fuck yourself into oblivion
and you just be perpetually injured or
crippled all the time right
so it's more of a self protective thing
but it's a really good idea and that's
another reason why we recommend using
all those rep ranges like we said
because that's another reason why we
don't recommend just doing all like
fives for hypertrophy because at some
point you're just not getting much more
out of it and you're just rating for
faster fibers but what about the rest of
them right bad for everything else and
at some point if you keep going it's
still bad for your faster fibers because
they're like just barely hanging on
right like I'm trying I'm trying to do
solve it but I got nothing left you know
it was like the the Brad Schoenfeld
study where they did like seven sets of
three versus three sets of ten same
mathematical volume to seven sets of
three people were basically broken in
half in they got the same hypertrophy
but the three by ten people always asked
for more volume they're like this is
easy I can do more it's like triple
their own volume at that point yeah so
the benefit of varied rep ranges is
really really alright number three the
updated RP back hypertrophy guide you
mentioned that with three times a week
frequency MRV might be roughly 25 sets
so let's say that's roughly eight sets
is mr v 8 sets as mr v each session for
solicitation however you also mentioned
that this number is combined for both
vertical and horizontal pulling mean
meaning it's really more like four sets
the procession of refrozen pulling in
four sets per session vertical i would
not immediately make that
jump because the intersection of muscles
used for both as a very high yeah pretty
much
all of the muscles that pull vertically
Terra's major last so on and so forth
pull horizontally as well and do a lot
of work and get a lot of stimulus out of
putting a lot of fatigue out of pulling
horizontally but there are some muscles
pulling horizontally that aren't really
activated a ton pulling vertically so
your rhomboids middle traps erectors are
not really active during pull ups or
pull downs for example but they are very
active during rows and various other
things so it doesn't convert to four or
four but let's see where we go from here
James any any um corrections there and
what I said no no I was I was gonna make
basically make the same point of saying
be careful to assume that's like a
symmetrical distribution like that
because there is so much overlap and
it's probably actually in your in your
benefit to be non symmetrical and how
that's distributed session discussion
yes yes yes we'll get to that all right
question and assuming the combining is
due to lats being involved in most
rowing yep in part but if you picked
horizontal movements that essentially
took the lats out like hi rose mmm or
someone just naturally rose with our
elbows very flared could you then say
both planes get their own independent
MRV of eight well I so I'm not sure I'll
tell I'll tell you why um your middle
traps your rhomboids and especially your
spinal erectors
get a Fox zillion amount of work and fit
he from every city movie do good morning
squats standing shoulder presses for
love of God so and they typically
because they get so much work they
typically don't have a whole lot more
volume tolerance to give as much as you
would think with direct back work right
so there's kind of that problem there so
I don't know if they would be a lot of a
full eight right maybe but you might
have to read your program a whole lot
I'll put you this way just fuck don't do
eight sets for spinal erectors per
profession you would die
you just put some date on are you
backward break in half so maybe but
let's pick out the really good stuff
from here
shot it if you can make a really great
point look if this is why a regulation
such a beautiful thing everything we're
saying the guides is a starting point if
you notice that the way you wrote or if
you purposefully roll without putting
your lats in much and you notice that by
rowing without much of your lats your
last don't get as much work then you can
do more lat work over what our
recommendations are even though your
quote-unquote back is already at eight
sets per week like you could say okay it
says precession you saved it eight sets
of total rolling which to last barely
feel a thing fuck yeah do four or five
six seven eight sets lats after that
totally fine right but on average
there's so much overlap that we didn't
get any more specific in this one of the
things one of the reasons why we don't
actually get into real specific like
there's articles online which I've all
due respect for but some reservation
about like how to train the teres major
like really how many studies are there
about that and also like for the love of
God it's trained almost identically with
the last I don't even know how to parse
the two out or like you know like
there's some clever tricks here and
there but man like we really didn't want
to make a muscle guy to be like how to
train your biceps how to train your
fucking brachioradialis like no like
look if you really want to get to that
shit there's tons of good resources for
that I think um strengthen conditioning
research what's that guy's name it used
to be the Chris Peter Harris but it's
the other guy Chris Beardsley his shit
is great for like super specific
in-depth muscle shit like that
I don't know how externally valid it is
it's really well reasoned from a
biomechanical perspective so you could
look into that we're just not that
people for that and with all due respect
that I think there's great great utility
for that kind of stuff I just don't I
think utilities great insofar as there's
validity there I just don't think it it
really is transferring very well to
real-world gains you know like just
funny though don't go over here Marvy do
pull downs you have a big fucking back
likes at least in this context right and
like hypertrophy training it's like okay
are you really gonna be differentiating
these muscles on that level probably not
sure and if they're lagging for you you
might have to get into the weeds on that
but the guy
essentially not for the weeds be I'm a
little confused by the original probe
I'm sorry chime in on a show yeah so so
though I like the example he gave here
worries like okay so if you do exercises
where you're really careful about like
not getting a lot of spillover across
your back muscles could you treat them
independently essentially as the
question and the answer is yes you could
you could do a different style of
calculation the problem is that you have
to do that consistently right so let's
say you had a session and your lat
movement was just like a cable lat
pull-downs right where you just keep the
arms straight and just do like the lat
kind of shrug movement and then you do
like as you kind of are talking about
like the elbow high elbow roast where
you're not getting a lot of lat
activation you could absolutely at that
point treat those two groups separately
and because there's so little spillover
the problem in that is that how often
are you going to be doing training
that's that segmented because the moment
you switch over to doing a pulldown or
more of a traditional row then you have
to go back to the old way of doing it
right which at that point you might as
well have just stuck with that method of
training the whole or excuse me the
method of calculating that the whole
time that's where it's so it's kind of a
it's a good idea right it's feasible you
could definitely do it but it falls
short and practicality because almost
nobody builds a big back from doing high
elbow rows and let pullovers exclusively
right so that's kind of the problem
there yeah question B I'm a little
confused by the original premise didn't
change creators data give a rough
estimate as eight sets per session as ma
V let alone MRV
that would roughly double what was
recommended unless he also means as a
combination of both so James is James
Kriegers is approaching this from an
incredibly theoretical perspective where
he just talks about muscles in general
in a bunch of these studies are
exclusively on bicep some part of the
quad right like there is James Krieger
does not have data as I you know cuz I
love God it's not like an insult
I'm huge fans of huge industry we've
presented at conferences with him we
know him personally he'll be the first
to tell you that there's not a science
dr MeV for back
yeah the lung God doesn't exist most
studies don't even test the back I mean
in a lot of times you guys would be real
upset if you read
studies they'll be like we did squats
for the legs we did bicep curls and we
did bench press and then for the back we
did lat pulldown but you almost never
see pull-ups or rows in a study one is
that it's just rows are stuff to get a
really good end point system like when
does it start when does it begin it's
tough to standardized technique this
don't even bother with it right which it
also highly injury or injury risk of
bending over people hurt their backs of
these your undergrads most the time and
there's barely lift weights so you know
there's no research to say what the m84
back is and whether or not it's
different for the horizontal and
vertical you know and for any of you who
might be sitting there thinking like
well why don't they do that you guys
know that they should right well the
problem is is that in the laboratory
setting the stuffs a lot easier to test
in isolation for a variety of reasons
one in isolation you can just look at
one muscle group and you know that
there's no interference effects you can
standardize the technique on it of that
right with a row
because the technique is so different
across different limb lengths different
you know levels of flexibility like if
you can't even bend down and pick up a
barbell because your hamstrings are so
tight how can you standardized the
technique what if you have somebody who
has 21 inch arms and a weak back but how
do you account for that right like you
claim that's why these things are really
difficult so more often than not you're
gonna see something like a knee
extension a bicep curl or try feel like
a dildo tricep extension type thing
because they're easy to isolate in a
laboratory set yeah
so then he goes on to say but even if he
meant combined as well he didn't he just
meant for individual muscles but he's
not talking about the vast musculature
at all specifically so that's mev and he
said MRV could be as high as 10 sets it
could be even be higher which are three
times a week could be 30 cents compared
to the 25 you guys recommend the guy
this is just a difference in data /
personal observation so there is no
there's no data on this specifically so
it's not a difference in data in
personal observations this is one of
those where we have to do with a true
evidence based calling which is to take
experimental data and take our own
observations of physiological rationale
and work with a bazillion clients and
try to thread some truth out of that we
will say is um we've already mentioned
this various parts of the back get a ton
of work from not the back training not
specifically back training
and that fills in some of that volume
brings you close to them RV sooner
in addition to that most rowing
movements have most the back movements
that aren't purely vertical involved you
know most of the back and a lot of that
extra work comes from the horizontal
component not the vertical component so
it's sort of evens the stuff out in
addition to that uh and this is
something that has to be said it's not
said anywhere in the guides it's it's
not even I don't think it's implied I'll
just say here are MRV our volume
guidelines are derived from the
perspective of you train multiple muscle
groups probably your whole body um yeah
and did we say that
exactly don't explaining that point at
some may be just I don't know that's the
point that Mike and I always go back and
forth where we say like it's like an
ecologically valid calculation meaning
it's similar to what you would do most
likely in real life edges you're
probably training a very holistic
approach on your body yes sha the the
the opposite of that is if we put in
muscle only like let's say we think we
derived the local exclusive guides and
back MRV was 35 sets somebody to be like
hey I tried it it doesn't work it's too
much volume maybe like okay what
happened but like well with all the
other pulling I do and all this other
stuff it just didn't work we're like oh
yeah but these are just a few trade back
along and the retort accurate as hell
would be where the fuck trains just back
be like nobody wait so this is all these
volume landmarks are in the context of
the facts which is generally training at
least you're like a fucking college try
for training most of your fucking body
you know and we do note in the guides
themselves Jamis is where you're getting
is from that these values do change if
you look for example the values for arms
if you don't do much Chester back
training the valleys forearms all scoot
up like crazy because all of a sudden
your chest isn't fucking up your triceps
your back isn't fucking up your biceps
you could do way more same idea for back
in the context of a program and in
addition to that you're right about the
data slash personal observations we have
noticed through training a whole bunch
of people and observing a whole bunch of
stuff and reading the literature to some
extent that in the real world with three
sessions a week
most people do not exceed 25 working
sets per week and survive for long and
these are just guidelines for average
people and average relatively strong are
training people remember our guides are
targeted at people who have more
experience than the average study
participant and these people get pretty
fucked up one thing you know from
relatively moderate rain volumes one
thing you'll notice that you know a lot
of the folks that I've been debating on
YouTube with Steve Hall Trey Iowa's is
named Jordan Peters Paul Carter I'm
gonna Scott's leaving Jordan Peterson
yesterday because I'm here to be anyone
psychology um so a lot of these guys are
their volume landmarks are way lower
than the ones we recommend because
they're you start working with and are
themselves huge strong super fast rich
people they just can't survive these
crazy fucking volumes and the thing is a
lot of times moderately trained
individuals have the highest set number
M RVs of anyone cuz you can talk about
you motherfucker you roam 95 pounds I
can do that shit too for 20 fucking sets
a session but you start rolling 315 the
shoes work out the same way so for us it
is in an intersection of your our guides
are targeted at in there may well square
in the intermediate range 3d a 5 years
of training and the thing is why they
targeted people through high real
training so you won't people understand
the guides if you have less than three
years training you read them you'd be
like this is remaining goddamn sense but
three years and motherfuckers who think
they're advanced are not advanced there
was it the Ct Fletcher diet 30-second
youtube claims you see that one James oh
yeah what was it oh God but it doesn't
it doesn't taste good I Katie this is
like you don't need to shit for the
taste
you eat it for results what is he saying
thank you you wanted mother fucker this
is the greatest diet advice you'll ever
hear good folks Google Ct Fletcher diet
it's like a 30-second clip it'll change
your life
he's so hosed it everywhere yeah is
amazing keeps it as real as it gets so
so yeah we think that you know and
here's how are you
tripura MRV guidelines with all that
said we don't say MRV is 25 cents for
three sessions a week we say look as you
get towards 25 cents for three sessions
a week it's time to start looking at
your performance because if you survive
much further than that man yeah you're
lucky and it's not usual so we want to
err we intentionally err a little tiny
bit on the safe side with our movies
because we know that a lot of people
would just be like oh I'm RVM 25 that
means I can for sure do 25 not only the
performance but we go in the other
direction to where it's like if you're
going over 25 sets and you think you're
making a good-faith effort like you got
to re-evaluate what you're doing are you
actually doing good SFR stimulative
exercises or you just do it a bunch of
garbage and maybe you were doing garbage
on accident maybe you were putting in a
lot of work on the cable row or
something Mike and I always joke about
the cable row because we just don't Mike
and I both seem to agree that we just
don't get a lot out of it
so you might be like god damn I'm doing
like 10 sets of cable rows like every
other day what's the deal looks like you
made a good toy effort but it's just a
garbage exercise and maybe you need to
reevaluate which are really good as if
are exercises for your
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app see one
more quick and somewhat related question
as mentioned you guys are currently
going through and updating all the RPM
perks for you guys for your body part
the actual Mema be MRV estimations
changing yes they are or most of just
the other sections if so would make the
numbers considered slightly updated if
so what would make the numbers
considered slightly outdated um
updates and research updates in our
experience have made us update the
numbers for two quick examples and maybe
numbers are not really pretty solid
mostly to james Kriegers work in number
two MV numbers have come down because
we've learned we probably will keep
public down will be coming down anymore
we've learned with multiple publications
it was actually much harder to lose
muscle than people thought so it turns
out M B's surprisingly much lower to be
honest one when I first wrote the
initial muscle guide myself um alright
guys I I hi bald the MV values because I
thought people were just straight up not
even gonna follow him if I put the real
ones I thought were low enough nobody
really believes you that you can train
back with a sum total of six sets per
week and just not lose any gains funny
enough James I just posted something on
my Facebook and Instagram about like no
I had a couple client emails really yeah
yeah multiple frequencies a lot of
people commented like oh man
this means that I'm not gonna lose as
much muscle as I thought going from six
sessions to three sessions week it was
like no no no you just make gains of
slower rate you will lose zero muscle
that's a very good very different thing
yes so it one of those one of the
reasons we derived the volume
recommendations especially what James
and I call the dead zone between MV and
MeV is that a lot of people think that
like what it took you to get to a
certain muscularity is what
takes you to stay there people think
that about all sports actually like
games courts is even worse I think oh
we're so they're like oh man you you got
to practice tennis all the time to keep
your skills people like what I haven't
played tennis in two months in three
weeks I'll be as good as I ever wasn't
better like what what do you talk like
there's just not a thing and people just
think like because people have the Rocky
Balboa approach where pure ization looks
like it's just a big increase and then
you compete and then as soon as you're
done off you get worse and that's why
you get like retarded as shit like no
days off brother seven days we're
grinding like just a fucking idiot like
I don't know what to tell you
yeah and then like I mean even there's
been more recent evidence of kind of
validating our ideas on like
session-level
ma vs and em RVs which you know at the
earlier hypertrophy guides we were only
thinking about that wasn't really quite
validated yet and now it is and right
now we can actually use some of that
evidence and update some of those
numbers
funny story I've had two male clients
recently one very recently who they are
on their mass phase and they were like I
was like what do you wanna do you know
and they were like bro I just want to do
like typical like dude mass phase let's
do like chest arms abs I was like that's
that's perfectly fine right and so I'm
writing their program and it's like
fucking chest arms and abs like
basically every day if not every other
day right and they're like what what
what is this what how am I supposed to
do this I'm like you don't understand
you're training legs at maintenance
volume you're training back at
maintenance volume you have no idea how
much energy you're about to have that
can be funneled into the fuckin the two
sides of your arms and your yes ass you
know what I mean like you have no idea
how much stuff you are going to be able
to tolerate when you're not training
back in legs it's like there's such huge
muscle groups I was just thinking about
that because we were saying like who
does it who just transformed me back
right but those are meaningful changes
where you would say like okay instead of
saying eight sets procession on biceps
it might be like twelve sets if biceps
is one of the only things that you're
doing like and that's fine hundred
percent
all right a man was only one name Aidan
hmm hi Mike and James are there any
disadvantage to building muscle if
someone is extremely slow twitch
dominance apart from the obvious fact
that fast twitch fibers simply go bigger
and better and the slow tissue
have to do more volume also of the
slow-twitch dominant people still able
to grow a lot of muscle yeah sure so in
the sense like are there any
disadvantages to building muscle for
slow-twitch so that first one
there's no disadvantage right outside of
opportunity cost and what I mean by that
is if your goal is to look like Jay
Cutler Dorian Yates somebody like that
and you're like us you're somebody who
did cross-country in high school and was
good at it and was good at it
you just missing out on time that you
could be doing something that you're
good at and that you might be just
reaping massive rewards from now is
there any downside to trying to gain as
much muscle as possible not really if
it's what you're interested and it makes
you feel good but there is an
opportunity cost where you could just be
pursuing other endeavors in life which
are just maybe you're just more
efficacious for you or you just enjoy
more because you're good at it right so
that's really the only downside you can
still definitely grow muscle over time
even if you're a slow twitch person you
just have to understand that it's gonna
be substantially less than people who
are just born bigger and stronger than
you are and that's perfectly okay you
can still make progress you can still
look better you can still gain muscle
and some people like Mike's a great
example of this when Mike was younger he
wasn't a huge guy and you might look at
him and think like oh he's just gonna be
like another cross country guy because
he was smaller in stature turns out he
was an excellent responder to resistance
training the only way you know did you
go for it and see what happens right and
turns out it worked out really great for
him we had a podcast with Steve Hall
about genetics and muscle building and
that question that was being answered
was what does it take to find out if you
have the genetics to go like maybe not
the distance but to be really jacked and
my answer was you need to make sure
you're doing everything relatively
diligently sleeping eating training
fundamentally well you need to give it
like 2 or 2 to 4 years to see how your
rates of progress are and one of the
comments is I was like if I ever have
like too much faith in humanity I'll
read YouTube comments and bring my shit
back down with real world but one of the
YouTube comments was man that's a shit
that the dog should answer two to four
years fuck that that's too long I think
you can tell him 3 6 months and it's
like I mean the thing is a lot of people
that growth
asked in three six months it will
disappoint the fuck out of you after a
year and a lot of people that don't row
superfast in three to six months go on
to just keep going and going and going
and going and all of a sudden they're
fucking enormous there's tons and tons
of accounts of that and there's
literature to support the idea with that
correlation with how big you are at the
start or a few months into your training
is not as nearly as high as you would
expect with what you do when you're more
jacked later so uh you know wouldn't it
be sweet if you could find out how good
you could be at something three to six
months in yes and there is a correlation
there it is positive it is large but
it's not what I would call holistically
explanatory like it's not like like if
you didn't get super jacked within six
months and you're like dude I tried six
months and he get super jacked fuck it
don't quit yeah you know what I mean
unless you hate it that's what I would
say is like no you're fucking hate it
whenever you want it's quit right but
but that but that's like doesn't matter
if you do get jacked if you hate it
still quit right it's quit um but like
after two to four years if you're not
much more jacked and you've been putting
it in man it's just know there's no
magic that's going to be like I've never
seen an individual who four to two who
had the fundamentals checked in for
three years and that kid got very shitty
results and then tweaked some small
thing and just exploded it just doesn't
fucking happen
and keep a good perspective too because
like there's there's always gonna be
like the bigger and better person right
like we look at somebody like Chad
Wesley Smith and we're like god damn
that guy's fucking huge I wonder if I
could ever be that big and he looks at
somebody like half Torbjorn said like
god damn that guy's fucking huge right
people look up to Mike and be like I
wish I could be as big as Mike some
people might look to people like myself
or Eric homicides I think we're pretty
comparable maybe between like two
hundred and two hundred pounds in any
given time they might be like God those
guys are big
somebody might look at somebody like
Steve Hall and be like fuck I wish I
could look like Steve you know what I
mean like ones like Steve Hall yeah fuck
I wish I look like Steve Hall huh god
damn you know what I mean so there's
this perspective and there's always
somebody that's gonna be bigger better
leaner whatever then you just keep a
good perspective of where you are and
what you the progress that you've made
and like what are some like reasonable
comparisons that you think you can
achieve like if you are a slow twitch
person and you're like I want to look
like my kids or tell like your
perspective is just wrong right it's
not gonna happen that will never happen
unfortunately for you right that's the
reality and if you let that comparison
drive you down and make you feel
depressed then you're just wasting your
time you're spinning your wheels you
could be doing something else so just
keep that in mind like there's a guy
that can bring up actually in a somebody
a real world person James you might have
met him at one of the London so knows
his name is he's a very funny name by
American Sanders Fabian craps
that's an amazing name this is the S
really Baby Lips
so he's your European person oh yes very
and he is super awesome guy and he's
been training for quite a while and he's
just like you know he's like man you
know like what are my genetics cuz I
haven't been gaining a ton of muscle
recently and then and I had like a
heart-to-heart I was like look man like
you might not have unbelievable genetics
but the thing is like does he have a
future in the highest levels of
competitive bodybuilding I did the
upfront about this love live TV and say
probably not but thing is Fabian looks
to almost everyone in the gym and
everybody at the beach like a fucking
god dude you think they got something
t-shirt everyone's just gonna fuck this
guy like look at all he's got like 10
abs you know like holy shit that's a
fucking accomplishment fuck winning the
Olympia you look amazing like there's a
lot of times you get caught up in our
industry and our passion and hobby about
like Nana I gotta be the best guy I got
to be this and that like you know don't
don't worry about that do your bestie
for having fun you already look awesome
chances are you could look even more
awesome like I know that's the very idea
right it's like you could always look
more awesome that's the open-room yeah
like I'm not a knife be pro there's very
good chance I'll never be an i.v Pro
though I won't stop trying for the next
five years or so and I go into most gyms
when I'm on the leaner side and I get a
pump and get to a tank top and most
people just don't even know where to
categorize me as far as human being what
the fuck is wrong with that guy like you
know and a lot of people in here al
Billy who you know what when they when
he disagree with something technical
I've said they'd be like fuck me cuz it
really looks like dog shit like really
dog shit 240 pounds with AB
Dane's is pretty hard it's a very in
cell level of dogshit and it's funny too
because almost every single one of those
guys is like no profile picture ass
motherfucker it's like ma'am you must
just be so jacked they can't even take
pictures or your bitch ass Russian
Russian fucking trolls trollee f of a
camper gentle little I asked well the
fuckers out here all right Timothy
Schultz Tim with all due respect and you
know we're hundred percent joking your
name
sounds like the fucking nerd that like a
justice glasses like this and you get
like punched in the face by the bull
just don't break my glasses anything
else is flying are you can with these
shouts here I I'm allergic to everything
I left the lunch money on the counter
just don't break my glasses
fuck James where do you get this stuff
unbelievable I don't know I'm having
like an infinity your two nerd
impersonations what that white room in
the preload of the matrix was when he's
like I want guns and like fields of guns
streaming you just got them all man how
I live that nerd life I'm I'm the
fucking like the nerd who got into jock
stuff like I don't know it's just me
that's right and Timothy shelfs is
probably that motherfuckers gonna beat
the shit out of us making fun of nerds
to do the male physique template
actually on the screen like all right
listen Tim I was totally kidding but can
I call you Tim let me play can I buy you
lunch let me get you much let me get you
I never bullied you fuck real quick I
asked a good friend of mine who remain
nameless this friend in the peak of his
power lifting career was pulling 300
kilos and weighed 260 at competition and
he did not look like that in high school
and I was like did you get bullied in
high school or just like random you're
having a conversation he said yes it was
terrible
and I was like do you ever think of like
confronting your bullies now he looks at
me with zero humor in his eyes he goes
absolutely like can you imagine some guy
who's like 260 shows up at your front
door like hey I'm what's-his-name used
to bully me like look
listen that I have a family now look
please don't kill me please with the
face
I need my face for work you could bruise
the Pyro's everything everything else is
fine
immediate hit to the face he'd be like
okay I deserve that hit the face as much
as you want just don't kill me just he's
getting up just don't kill my family
kill me please it's amazing how many
people go into combat sports that they
grew up being bullied on it's crazy and
they because you know like there's part
of that it's like a want to be better
and want to be like self-sufficient but
you know there's also a part of that
that is vengeance you know what I mean
that is that that's my case that's
definitely there you can't deny that
that is there you know what I mean like
you plate you ride that high road like
self-defense
you know self-respect betterment all
that yeah I find shut the fuck up
there's vengeance so you wanna kick
somebody's ass oh my god if this is
Mackay dojo life which everyone should
follow on Instagram mcdo Joe life I
posted a video of a guy who had a guy
come to his gym and claim that he his
expertise was in the death arts and it
was like alright and he was like I'm
gonna spar with one of your guys and he
was like okay so they gave him a pro
fighter to spar with when the guy was
nice enough he just teed off on him for
a while and then when the guy fell he
would like back off because if he died
in a fight in like 15 seconds and they
let him get out but he fuck around with
him some more and then the guy like talk
to him afterwards yeah I've done this
and that and man that guy's really good
and I've done like I've never done any
jujitsu except for some ground work like
the caption was like question my
question right like what does that mean
what does that mean so it was just
amazing he like had done like winch on
and some muy Thai like my Tae Hee stance
was completely insane he's clearly has
never been in a fight his life and I was
just like hey kudos walking into an MMA
gym and after that sound like a level of
pride and arrogance that is impressive
like you think you're just gonna walk
into this gym of fighters and be king of
the mountain like goddamn dude good on
you good on you for the confidence you
must slay in the dating world the only
part that matters yeah all right
happy new you're happy New York docks
that's interesting happy New York
goddamn he is a front never mind I'm
gonna bite my tongue on that okay both
Mike and James shut up now that I
trained four days per week using
variations a full-body male physique
template and I've since adapted Luke's
grades after purchasing product about
once per mezzo usually on week night in
week 3 or 4 or the accumulation phase I
just have a crap workout I get to the
gym my joints ache my initial warm sighs
feel terrible my first work set is down
some raps I tribute this to just life
stress slash fatigue but since reducing
that is probably impossible for me what
do I do when those crap sessions occur
take it as a single deal OD move on and
train hard with a reduced volume or and
move on or train hard when he's falling
I feel like all the options are bad some
may be less bad than others it's
actually that last sentence is brilliant
from life wisdom perspective yeah I
would say my best bet is if it's a real
dog shit then scrap the workout recovery
session basically deal owed come back
the next workout and rock it out if it's
a just bad but you can still hit your
numbers they're just harder to hit than
usual then we go through James yeah and
because you're using the MPT and you
know that this is like a reoccurring
theme maybe think about raiding during
week three a little more conservatively
than you normally would like definitely
don't do any Plus Ones maybe even
consider doing like a minus one at that
point and that might just help you keep
it keep you in the game that little
autoregulation might just keep you in
there but I think yeah you know like
Mike said taking a life session see how
that goes and if you can bounce back and
have good training for the rest of the
week that's that's a golden strategy if
you take a life session and you come
back and you still feel like shit the
whole time I would say some more
substantial more beefy changes might be
in order and that might be like starting
at a lower place and in week one or
maybe starting at the same place and we
want to not moving as aggressively
across the mesocycle from that point on
all right to YouTube let's do it let's
get into it
i'ma share my screen share share share
okay
Oh what's this Peck what's this Peck guy
one which one oh I love nine best
exercises for an attractive lower chest
look at this women look at look at this
guy with like moobs over here versus
like jacked guy yeah what do we got we
got everyone who eats needs to hear this
warning okay it's automatic I'm so stuck
on this guy's like what PCT didn't go
very well look at my gun oh yeah like
bro you need plastic surgery for what
the fuck you got going on I love this
ready hey watch this is a great Greg to
set look at that
it was work out there it is that's
wisdom folks waving hands around angrily
yeah alright so white privilege so this
is really disturbing look at this
fucking graphic here look at that what
the fuck's going on the devil biting
somebody look look good demon yeah what
the hell you too bad I was goodness I
was gonna say vampire but it's got a
horn so yeah and ears yeah ah alright
let's get started first good one I
spotted here is Elijah Clifford he says
well he says James Krieger doesn't
recommend diet breaks Lyle recommends 2
week diet breaks why do RP recommend
between two thirds or 1 X the length of
the deficit that preceded it what is
yours and your clients experience with
that please talk about your approach and
how it came about thanks so here's the
deal
James krier doesn't recommend diet
breaks and neither do we because this is
not a diet break it's a maintenance
phase after the diet is over um I'm not
sure the nature of Laos recommendations
I don't know if it's two weeks and then
you start hitting ah super insane
hypocaloric thing again or is it in the
middle of one somebody left out that
comes to
is the 3d mga guys Erik Helms etc they
recommend more frequent diet breaks
often times one week every month from
what I understand I don't want to
caricature their position so there's
there's a lot more typography there that
this comic doesn't cover but it's a very
good comment um the reason we recommend
two thirds to one time length of a diet
that preceded it is it's like okay so
here's the situation you have a deficit
and then you have a question of how long
do we maintain before doing another
deficit right the reason is and some of
this actually Lyle has written fairly
eloquently about the various hormonal
axes that are really really considerably
disrupted after months of dieting and
they don't just zap back to reality two
weeks later I believe actually allows
recommendation there's two weeks at
maintenance before a cutting phase after
amassing phase I don't think it's cut to
cut correct me if I'm wrong
so James Krieger has actually spoken
extensively in conferences about how
long these things take
to settle back to relatively normal I
think James would be fairly comfortable
with our 2/3 - 1 X the length as a
matter of fact James might actually be
more on the 1x plus length James
remember that talk um the James Krieger
did in Finland where he talked about
yeah I mean that was like it's a
sobering talk like goddamn does di'ja
fatigue technically hang in forever huh
it is sort of parts of it do right what
we tell people is like if you are 200
pounds before and you're gonna be 150
and live your life it's gonna always
require village vigilance so you're
never gonna be a quote-unquote normal
150 because the the fat cells there or
whatever other hormonal AXYZ simply
don't seem to re-establish forever but
in our estimation of literature and our
tons and tons of experience of clients
to whom this is targeted and this is
targeted mostly at general population
people that just want to do it they want
to lose like 40 pounds right and they
know it's got to come from two or three
separate diets as you can't lose for all
at once and they want to know like how
long should I wait between diets and our
answer for that was 2/3 one time length
but deficit because for hormonal reasons
psychological reasons and social reasons
we usually found that
much shorter is just gonna get you into
a real nasty situation where you're
super low calories again you're neat is
super super low like a return to normal
ish neat is one of the ways we've
figured out this number and it's just
gonna be a dogshit disaster of a diet
it's like asking somebody like um I
guess you could it's a cool or they now
should be like you know if you have like
you know soldiers that you're sending on
tour to fight a war and then you send
them on break somewhere like how long
are they on break before they're good to
fight war again and I'm sure generals
and all sorts of people and military
researchers have a pretty good idea of
like this is too soon right and many
people can just fight were definitely or
a few people because they're psychotic
and they're perfect soldiers or whatever
but you got to look at average --iz and
for our purposes at Rp the 90th
percentile actually like we want most
people to use this advice and look if
you wait two or three extra weeks where
you were totally ready what do you lose
two or three weeks of not getting to
your goal but then you for sure get to
your goal and you're super awesome and
healthy for the rest of your life but if
we gave you a way to agressive number
like if we gave half the length of a
diet a lot of people would succeed with
it so many people wouldn't the downsides
just don't trade-off that way so that's
my answer James yeah and I'm just gonna
devil's advocate here because uh because
why not but um I know and I don't want
to speak incorrectly here but I only
know this because Mel has looked into it
a little bit and she's kind of relayed
some of the info for me I know the three
dmj guys have experimented with some
protocols that are like two weeks on two
weeks off kind of indefinitely until
though that not indefinitely but until
the diet is over and there is some some
kind of recent evidence that does
suggest that that method is just as good
as some of the other more traditional
like cut all the way through type
methods especially for body composition
and metabolic outcomes I don't want to I
don't want to speak incorrectly but I
there is some at least some limited
evidence that suggests that sometimes
doing that's that style might actually
be just as good as doing a normal style
so there is some merit to the idea of
taking diet breaks we typically like to
we like to approach the diet break
quote-unquote which we don't really do
diet break we do the maintenance phase
kind of like we do a deal ode where when
you fucking hit the brakes you hit them
hard and we're looking for a full come
recovery and that's both on the physical
and psychological fronts big question
here but one that is really interesting
Remco says hi guys thanks for the great
content Mike's very sensible advice
really helped me get back to training
after two surgeries to fix a lack of
robotic arm I now have a robot I'm just
kidding I'll fix a herniated disk we can
you imagine go to the ER and you're like
my robot arm is missing they're like you
have an arm like it's not robotic
they're like sir get the fuck out but
it's also conundrum cuz you're like yes
I have a robot arm but now training is
meaningless no that's true god damn I
never thought of that but fuck training
if you could just engineer the arms if
you had like a bionic arm we had like
electronic and like now adaptogens Oh
sexy hmm
alright two surgeries fixed her knee in
just a few years ago that's really cool
ever since I've been using the RP male
physique training template physique
should be spelled where's that guy from
training has pride from the United
States I goddamn I butchered ship from
Alabama yeah there's a bunch of words I
straight-up don't know how to spell man
there's much words I don't know how to
spell letter thank God I don't know if
you remember James remember the GRE well
yeah there's no spell checks the section
on the essays guys so you take the
Graduate Record exam to get me a grad
school you have to it's a computer-based
test and you have to write an essay on a
computer there's no spellcheck you're
just like oh my god these people got it
I got did fairly well on it but like I
was just like dude I remember that
because I was like oh I got this and I'm
like starting to write down my fancy
word that I'm like oh I don't know how
to spell adaptability let's just use
really basic words hmm box spelling with
great success thanks a lot for that our
pleasure
our P templates like most programs
assume a weekly routine what are you
thoughts on structuring a two-week
training routine or should we actually
talked on the god I think it was like
maybe three webinars ago or something we
had like a nonparametric style
discussion but I don't remember which
one that was
the situation is that I have my kids one
week but not the next due to time
constraints and lack of a babysitter I'm
forced to train at home in the week I
have the kids I had at home I have a
squat rack bench in cable station
goddamn second treatment oh you're good
to go homie hold up
not mad on this other week however the
next week I am often away from home and
would like to train at a gym if only to
get out of the house should i structure
oh no I mind it is both good should I
structure this is a weekly routine
despite different locations and
equipment for example squad at home
squad at the gym next week - to ensure
steady progress with an exercise machine
he's the greater variation but if
equipment for example squad at home
Monday and then do machine like press
the gym the following Monday to hit
quads but they're different exercise I
could do the barbell and cable exercise
one week blah blah blah yep okay or is
that too much variation let's answer the
ball variation and then the volume
progression question so I would say I
would definitely take advantage of
variation and do mostly different
exercises week to week so you have like
a week one three five and a week two
four six something like that or even
just week one three week to four I think
that's totally fine because you're using
more variation within the method cycle
you would just lose less variation
between mezzos so like a lot of you're
like James and I would say oh you know
normally you would switch out exercise
after two-three mezzos yours my dear for
you three to form outsource or something
like that because you're using them much
less now James with me so far on that
answer yeah I was thinking like it's
still probably not a terrible idea to
keep some of your main lifts kind of in
the mix like if you can squat and keep
squat going like that's the barbell
there it is yeah I don't you can do the
cable variants because they keep
different cables of different like
lubricate lubrications and actual horses
but here's like a simple example right
we're like at in your home gym set up if
you're doing squats are you doing let's
say you're doing quads like your first
movement might be heavy squats and then
you could maybe consider doing down sets
as your second activity or maybe you did
like a belt squat like I do a belt squat
Jimmy rig at my home gym right boom when
you are on you're your gym week you can
keep the squats as your first exercise
and then do like leg press or knee
extensions or hack squats as you're your
secondary exercise and right that's a
good way of keeping the momentum on the
one lift and then getting some variation
in there
and then he says how would the volume
progressions then work should it be
three sets of squats one week and three
sets of light press the next week
did that increase the number of sets of
the next cycle or should it be three
sets one week and four sets the next
week two progressive it over the quads
even though it's different exercise your
thoughts are are much appreciated so
Remco here's the deal um-um progression
and volume should be Auto regulated so
both first weeks should be your MeV ish
and the second week your any he for
those exercises will be a little higher
than if you just came clean out train
because there's some exercise transfer
but then what you do from week to week
to week is gonna be based on not just
how last the week before that went but
the week before that plus the fact that
she had some extra work last week - the
fact that it was slightly different
exercises so for example if you would
normally progress one set per week on
every exercise does that mean you would
progress two sets per week maybe but
then you're not used to some of the
exercises so maybe it'll be like one
night you know one and a half sets or
something like that right so it honestly
what you should be doing is this when
you go to the gym in the first week or
you go to a house in the first week go
to mev and get a good pump a little bit
of soreness shut it down note the volume
for the exercises you have in common in
the second week where you go to the gym
Auto regulate to get the same degree of
pump and disruption or so on and so
forth and maybe add a set to present
some overload and then for the new
exercises play it safe because it's your
first week you learn in there and again
target the pump so I wanna so on and so
forth perceived level of effort like
what we don't want you to do is like
well it sounds five sets of like process
cuz I did four sets of squats last time
and after two sets of leg presses you
could barely walk the lactic acid isn't
leaving and you can't bend your legs you
really up three more sets then you get
so sore II can't train for a week and a
half
don't do that so definitely Auto
regulate it was a matter of fact Charlie
and I my training partner we were doing
legs but this is our first week sorry
this is our second week now we do first
week last week last week we're supposed
to do three sets of live presses for
high reps after two sets we literally
both looked at each other and we
couldn't bend our legs and we're like
dude we're done
we went on to the next exercise and I
didn't heal on time for the light day I
had today I had to train a little bit
sore which is not something you want to
do very often if you know so definitely
don't do that thing where you're like
well it's got to be progress add sets
use that autoregulation how big of a
pump do you have how much disruption be
filled locally at the muscle
how much fatigue you're feeling how much
perceived exertion all of those are
where they should be and they should be
a little higher every week right it
doesn't matter where you go what kind of
gym and what you do you always have
those use those in Vail it's a self
solving problem so for example if you
used a barbell that rose if you go to
dumbbell one arm rows because you're
switching gyms the one-arm rows you'll
get a pump a little bit quicker because
of the novelty and that way it'll drop
your volume on them a little bit which
is good because with novelty or Emmy he
is still gonna be a little low right so
it's it's really a self solving problem
so don't ever get this mentality James
maybe even comment further or you're
like well it says eight sets and then
your triceps are off the bone by set six
you're sad so don't don't do that yeah
so just to kind of reiterate what Mike
already said when you are when you have
a consistent week to week program you
can follow like really easy simple I
don't want to say linear but pretty
straightforward volume intensity
progressions that's usually what we
would recommend to do mostly for the
sake of consistency tracking and all of
the like in your situation there's a lot
of variation from week to week so you
just can't do that same progression and
that's when autoregulation is king and
and I was gonna say that the same idea
and Mike already knocked it out of the
park at this point there's no other
option but autoregulation because
there's so much variation week to week
in what you're doing you have to just
take it one session at a time and just
do your best so starting at mev and then
go from there with a and this is where
like having a like a pre-planned program
intersecting with autoregulation
is really handy because you could say
okay my typical mesocycle should go for
four weeks and so when I'm keeping this
autoregulation in mind I know that week
one's going to be mev weeks two and
three are going to just mostly be by
feel and then week four I know is going
to be hard and I know it's meant to be
hard and that's usually when I would
crap out so I'm going to Auto regulate
and make sure I overreach at that time
specifically even if it doesn't
quite feel like what I should be doing
that day that's kind of a good
intersection of those things
boom last for the YouTube questions is
Kai Holland who says what are your
thoughts on the efficiency of concentric
only training is there ever a use for it
I read about it in Ross Edge Lee's book
he used as a technique to reduce
soreness and a lot for more training
going leading up to his everest rope
climb as he was working to close pay
deadlines you guys are the best thanks
Kai Kai excellent question James you
seem to want to really get at this well
I was gonna ask you because I've
actually tried doing this this was
something I've experimented with when I
was like in in college and there's so
here's the thing that I kind of
discovered I want to hear your thoughts
on this too because it's kind of an
interesting thing like in theory it
should work right where you're like okay
if I add a lot of consent I could add
concentric only volume although I'm
missing out on the east central portion
of the exercise I can still just add
more stuff right the problem is is that
there's basically only three exercises
that I have figured out that this can
actually be done in any meaningful way
outside of using like fucking gyroscopic
machine technology right we're dropping
all the weights all the time right so
your option basically in most realistic
situations are pull-up variations which
you can just drop to the floor dip
variations the same thing you push-up
drop and then really it's basically like
bike or gamma tur for the legs there's
really no other option for except for
dropping the weights with the deadlift
or something like that so your options
are very limited it's very difficult to
program it's very difficult to auto
regulate and what I found was that it
really didn't enhance anything for me I
didn't feel like it was really adding a
lot of strength or recovery or volume at
any point I think that there are
opportunities in sport training where
doing something that's kind of
concentric only a good example of
concentric only is actually in the pool
where you're mostly just moving and
you're not having a loaded resistance on
the way back you're just doing the
antagonist movement a lot right and that
is something that does seem to have some
efficacy in like as like a light session
type activity and just kind of some
light activity that
can stimulate some recovery but in the
weight room specifically I have had no
success having played around with this
stuff Mike have you ever tried any of
this kind of goofy stuff yeah sure did
I did some concentrically training I've
done some eccentric only training and
and let allow me to segue to my as
always Thomas soul inspired bullshit if
there exists a notion that rears its
maybe not ugly head but predictable head
in a sport training and preparatory
training specifically that there are
ways to rig this system to get these
really big benefits with very low costs
and it's predictable and it happens all
the time and training with eccentric
only and concentric only have at various
points been that and this is where the
Thomas solo part comes in is he retorted
one one time to someone by saying like
do you think you're among in the first
several thousand or several million
people to have that idea like someone's
already thought of this but like you're
not even the first you're not even
remotely the first person so here's the
deal for every one that says a we think
alike do you think eccentric only
training works first of all you're not
remotely the first person have that idea
in second of all wouldn't it be pretty
fucking obvious if that netted these
unbelievable gains versus other kind of
training so maybe it wouldn't be obvious
for sure but it's it's really
interesting when there's not even a
consensus on which side probably works
like if you talk to most bodybuilders
most people who train about range of
motion even if they don't practice full
range of motion at least most
bodybuilders pay lip service to it
really you can joke with the body
builder does partial ROM like hey man
look at that guy doing partial ROM and
they're gay a fucking pussy you know you
should be doing for wrong like people
sort of just kind of know like gaining
weight on low calories most people are
like in a course that doesn't fucking
work but when you have things that are
probably just pretty equivocal you start
to see roughly even number of people in
each side for example the keto Carter
more people versus super high carb
vegans anti protein beans which is not
all vegans by the way I mean both are
just as it is convinced that they're
correct
they're just you know like just as long
as one another because it turns out you
can't eat both ways and it's fine but a
balanced diet is also great one thing
about it is through animal studies we
know that concept Ricki centric and
isometric training and this is what by
the way I missed one isometric training
I have done a symmetric training before
and it's been very well researched
isometric only training is they actually
the easiest one of all these to do
because stapling something to the ground
isn't that hard and they've all come to
roughly the same conclusion so first of
all the animal studies show they're
slightly different hypertrophy pathways
for all three of those right which is
trippy but sort of sort of expect
secondly they've tried egg nauseam to
show that one of these is more
hypertrophic than the other and they've
largely failed there is a slight bias
literature that isometrics is for the
effort you put in just don't grow as
much muscle as concentric and eccentric
but I will say that eccentric versus
concentric if I was to review the
literature I would say concentric only
probably grows something like 80 or 90%
of the muscle that eccentric only grows
the benefit though is that con centric
only is not as fatiguing and damaging
but here's our key concept from our RP
bullshit the stimulus to fatigue ratio
this is just direct trauma single quote
by no means clear which one of those
eccentric only con centric only are
isometric only wins on stimulus to
fatigue ratio and I suspect that if one
of them wins for a certain time a
mesocycle or to the other one REE
sensitized us so much then it starts
winning so at the end of the day it's
probably a good idea to just fucking do
all three maybe not all the time maybe
you can have some variation for example
some eccentric accentuated movements
slowly Centrex extra pauses extra P
contractions for isometric some really
exaggerated content trucks with a bit
less of everything else sure but to
think that there is some magic dust that
only God concepts or training rules just
as much muscle but at the same time has
almost no fatigue contribution is just
unfortunately not true there was a gym
in the University of Michigan a special
Jimmy on a special access to I never got
access to just but once I took a tour of
it where they had was called pneumatic
machines were their only concentrate by
definition to the harder you press the
heart of machine presses back but
there's
we centric that gym was billed as a way
to enhance strength and health but not
build muscle and become bulky because
the idea at the time was that
concentrically training didn't build any
muscle actually Falls it does it doesn't
feel quite as much muscle as eccentric
only training but them together build
the most possible muscle so in other
words is concepts with only training a
tool you could potentially use in
moderation to get some interesting
benefits on the side probably is it a
thing where you're like dude concept
Rick only no fatigue tons of growth it's
fucking awesome never doing some tricks
again
absolutely not James yeah absolutely and
I think there's at least one review if
not maybe maybe more than one maybe two
where they've looked at I think they
took isometrics out of the equation and
they looked at concentric only versus
eccentric only versus combination and
combination winds like a combination
ones every time and it's not even that
clear that concentric and eccentric are
very different from one another because
it used to be like this it's funny your
question is funny because you it's it's
actually backwards for the question most
people ask because most people James we
would say most people are interested in
eccentric only right they do eccentric
but it's like even concentrate I think
is he centric does grow more muscle
these definitely costs more fatigued
than concentrically
but I think it probably pretty close to
fucking balances out yeah and sorry last
thing and like James said even if it
didn't bounce out even if it turned out
that eccentric left let's say let's say
should make this out okay you actually
should do a little bit more context or
eccentric or the other way around
the realistic application of that is
whole fucking perversely difficult
tracking is so difficult what are you
gonna do for like price fucking you
gotta have people lower leg press for
you
you know maybe would they have super
awesome gym machines with amazing
technology later I thought of one I
thought of one right it's uh you go up
the stairs look like a weighted vest the
elevator or slide down yeah they for
down get bored down Legolas style right
like crack your skull open people like
what happened you're like I was lifting
weights like how did you do this really
I was lifting him on the stairs people
like okay so here's a good example of
this idea actually playing out in real
life track cyclists track cyclists have
huge fucking quads a they probably had
huge quads and that's why they got into
tracks I
Kling fair enough be they do a lot of
strength training but see they basically
do a cycle sprinting which is concentric
only which is a huge metabolic stimulus
right so when you do that fucking crazy
cycling you're just generating a huge
amount of metabolites you have ischemic
conditions until it's done right and so
they might be reaping a strange kind of
metabolites driven hypertrophy benefit
that they're not getting from the weight
training alone right and that's why you
see some of these fucking what's it
what's it called the velodrome you see
these guys they have like outlandish Li
big legs we're like bodybuilding sized
quads now the rest of their legs don't
match but their quads or alive yeah what
is going on that's an example where yeah
you might be reaping some concentric
only benefit but to start to apply that
to other muscle groups and to start
training that and any young way outside
of this is a sport right there do it for
sport I don't know you could think of
like a the Prowler like the sled push
you have a similar thing you don't get
the concentric only on the the lower leg
because you're stepping but the upper
leg right is just push push push push
similar effect there yeah but then again
it's like how do you program that and
also like if you look at the stimulus to
fatigue ratio and just the stimulus to
time ratio we in track cyclists have big
quads all they fucking do is train their
legs go on like right and before they
train before weight training was common
and track cycling they had smaller legs
they were still huge but not like go you
know go and tell everyone that
bodybuilders are smaller legs kind of
huge so it's kind of one of those things
like oh man if you want the glide just
train the track cyclist you need 20
hours of riding the fucking bike we're
here your fucking mind
yeah like what about the rest of your
body at that point right a lot of
percent not gonna get that for even have
you ever used the arm or domitor fuck
that thing yes it's actually I would
argue unless you do it one at a time you
it's hard to even do a concentric only
because the other arm I don't know if
it's just me but tends to resist yeah
it's just like you're fighting you're
like you're trying to go but the other
ones like I'm not sure about that right
I don't know it's hard like it when the
armor domitor you'll see it in really
old gyms and it's like somebody thought
man we have this for a lower body which
is the bicycle it'll work just as great
for upper body just doesn't I've never
anyone used that to benefit outside of
rehabilitation yeah I was gonna say like
wheelchair users that's a common
modality but outside of that and
rehabilitation I don't know man
yeah not good so anyway TLDR do
concentric and eccentric it's okay to
emphasize one or the other a little bit
here and they are you training for
variation as well as isometric but
there's probably not any magic there in
like oh this miracle of concentric or
miracle of eccentric or miracle of
isometric training and hilariously all
three have been proposed as miraculous
weird ways of training and people have
made money off selling books and stuff
about them go figure
all right well is that is that it for
today that's it all right
well we had some good questions folks
thanks for tuning in if you are watching
on YouTube and enjoy mics and my
ridiculous banter and bullshit hit that
subscribe button god dammit get the
updates we come out at least once a week
we used to do it on a regular time
schedule right now we're kind of
switching gears we're just going to do
once per week so if you want to make
sure you get the the video as soon as it
comes out hit that subscribe button
subscribe to all of our P's nonsense and
you'll get it as soon as possible if you
are interested in getting your answers
quite excuse me the answers oh god I
suck getting your questions answered
explicitly you got to join our people
that's my man that's the where you go if
you write questions on YouTube we kind
of pick and choose which ones we think
are good if you want to definitely get
your answer questions check out our P
plus in addition to this there's all
sorts of cool videos blog posts recipes
goddamn there's so much stuff on there I
don't even know anymore do we calculate
that there's like so much video on our P
Plus right now that you couldn't even
like finish it in your lifetime yeah but
if you started watching them you would
have to watch like an unbelievable
number of hours of video and there's
always more coming so you need to be
tough alright so if you want to join the
discussion hit up rp+ if you enjoy these
youtube videos subscribe for us and keep
sending in those good questions folks PE
zombies