[Music]
what's going on guys I'm here in Toronto
backing candidate so safe to be back
home got to show you guys Sean I got the
crew back I'm sure you can notice that
in the production quality of the intro
it's so good to have Sean back on board
we were away for a month Steph is still
in Florida so we don't have the full
crew yet but a couple weeks we're all
going to be back in Kelowna making some
sick content as of right now I'm here
with actually the rise cruise and we're
going for a workout I'm gonna show you
guys some of the behind the scenes of
that and then after that I'm going to
give you a full update on how my cut has
been going since my first episode of the
shredding series I've actually been down
10 pounds so I'm going to talk about my
whole approach to dieting how it's
changed so we're gonna go get a quick
workout in and then after that I'm gonna
take you guys through my whole approach
and update you on all that I've never
been to this gym but
looks pretty cool the all these
Technogym machines I'm normally not a
fan of
but looks like really new so could be
some interesting machines here yeah I
think I'm just gonna do like whatever it
is the team is doing for the sake of the
video today it'll probably be fairly
freestyled very quickly I've basically
been doing upper lower split and my
first block of sort of like a
powerlifting bodybuilding hybrid routine
was more so focused on technique um so
the volume wasn't really high and I was
doing you know quite a bit of like
technique work hour speed work and now
in this block I'm doing much more volume
accumulation so the number of sets are
increasing the reps are a little bit
higher excited to update you guys on
more that as we go forward but as for
now I'm on the road I don't know if I
said in the intro clip but we're
actually here for the Toronto pro show
Expo with Rhys when I'm on the road like
that I'm a little bit more liberal with
my my programming and just kind of go
with the flow of what everybody else is
doing
I could probably basically count this
week even though it probably won't go
for seven days as a sort of D load week
from the powerlifting programming and
then after this is just back to the
regular schedule yeah what are you
thinking what are we gonna do how do I
train chess chess I didn't know we can
should do some arms idea maybe back and
bicep yeah it's a good option back
biceps and shoulders it's more
interactive to have like a bar girl just
just bar yeah so this is something mark
just said he's like make sure you write
this down and something I actually like
believe me I've been tracking all my
workouts lately and he's like if you
have something written down it'll be so
much more likely to stick to it but
we're just actually even though we're
gonna kind of like freestyle it anyway
if you didn't write it down we'd be so
much more likely to just like chat like
not get through it all
so we're gonna be proactive write it
down ahead of time before we actually do
the workout like in the shortest period
of time so if you don't focus on getting
each exercise like dang dang dang you're
just wasting your time and y'all still
wasting all the potential that you have
to stress your body the right way
yeah totally agree all right I actually
think well what would be cool if you
want to do this quick keep it like
efficient we could do antagonistic
superset so we'll do one back exercise
so let's say like a pull-up and we'll
superset that with the tricep and then
we'll superset a shoulder with a bicep
protocol
so we'll do a dumbbell shoulder press or
a machine shoulder press and then do a
cycle arrest for the other part
yeah exactly yeah so I'll write it out
and then maybe for the finisher we could
do like some lateral raises and a row
something like that sound good but it'll
be like three super sets put together to
be really Tommy okay all right I'm gonna
do up to work out and then I'll link it
in the description if you guys want to
try it totally off the cuff like a
freestyle make sure workout all right
wide grip pull-up
I'm going to do three sets of my wife
we're gonna superset that with a tricep
press there
that's the coolest happen so this is my
channel he literally had the video I was
watching out my warm up some photos
video and
places really cool
both pleasure meeting or look forward to
thing all right so here we go we've got
super set one wide grip lap pull down
three sets of ten to twelve super setted
with tricep press down so that's
antagonistic superset one shoulder press
option superset with a bicep curl and
then superset three we've got a cable
row and a dumbbell lateral raise and the
reason I like to do those sort of
antagonistic supersets if you're limited
in time limited on time is because
you're opposing muscle can recover while
you're doing the other thing so while
you're doing pull-ups your triceps are
resting essentially and then while
you're doing triceps your back and
biceps are resting so they're not kind
of interfering with one another and
limiting your strength in that way I'm
actually did a whole video on super sets
and some of the science behind them wind
that up here somewhere that's the basic
rationale behind that so if you are
limited on time you do want any super
sets that's the way I recommend doing it
not necessarily just like I said five
seven as a protective active back
because your strength will just diminish
as you kind of go on your set so
hopefully that made some sense my my
voice is absolutely toast it's been like
crazy Expo day we can get into that
right now
with the pull-ups I'm basically doing
the Alberto Nunez trick so I'm not going
for a specific rep number I'm just going
until I've got about two reps left in
the tank so I'm not going all the way to
failure when I think I could probably
get one or two more that's when I'll
stop so for that one
it was just ten
it's Maserati Merak
[Music]
[Music]
okay so that's it for those we get three
sets and pull up three sets of tricep
press down for our next superset we're
gonna be doing a shoulder press so I'm
gonna see what marks monsta mark wants
to do for a shoulder press and we're
gonna superset that with the EZ bar
bicep curl okay so the shoulders we're
gonna use this pure strength the
shoulder press machine I've actually
never used this before but American I
are just saying it kind of resembles the
techno gym equipment but that's that's
actually smooth yeah I like that that's
nice it's a good angle on that there's a
lot of these will lock you into like
almost an uncomfortable up and back
position this one is more slightly
forward it's like you get a little bit
more upper PEC here too
it ended like in Super seven something
we're just doing the preloaded barbells
here normally I like to use the EZ bar
because it's a little easier on my
wrists but the straight bar is you know
more or less the same thing I'm just
gonna go a little bit lighter and ten to
twelve reps on both of these and again
you've got the shoulders and triceps
most active over here and then we're
working just five steps over here so
while we're hitting biceps chest
sorry the shoulders and triceps are kind
of resting
so our final superset is going to be a
Close Grip cable row and we're gonna
focus on scapular retraction here so
really gonna try to hit the mid traps
and lats and over here we're gonna do a
dumbbell lateral raise probably go 12 to
15 reps over there that's a little bit
higher 10 to 12 here
I've got a bit of a pump here it's
pretty good lighting but should give you
some idea of where I am so definitely
feeling leaner than I was in the last
one but I'm still around like 170 pounds
in the morning now so still I think I've
got like another 7 or 8 pounds to go
which'll the next seven or eight pounds
will make a big difference in terms of
how I look more so than the first seven
or eight in my experience thing those
those real couple of poses so quarter
turn
okay I'm down all right so that's a
little glimpse at what the physique is
looking like right now we're gonna I
think head back to the Airbnb checking
with you guys over there give you a
little update on my diet so I'll check
back in over the Airbnb
my way
alright guys we're back here at the
Airbnb it's actually the next day so we
just finished up day two of the Expo and
last estate was like kind of crazy we
just did a lot of photos and video stuff
with the team but I did want to update
you guys on my diet and how that's
changed before the video is over now I
think what I'm gonna do is they've got
these lights set up Rises actually doing
a documentary for our trip so once that
actually goes live I'll make sure I
blast it up to you guys I think it's
gonna be really really cool I think I'm
just gonna like sit down here and like
update you guys on how my diet has kind
of changed over the last month of my cut
so Shawn you want to prop the camera
down so then at this time okay so as you
guys might have seen if you watched my
first shredding episode in the 4-minute
diet I kind of laid out my macros and
all that stuff I'm actually followed
those macros for about two weeks so the
first two weeks of my cut I was
following those pretty strictly within
the the confines I set out in that video
and then after that I more or less just
switch to a completely fully intuitive
approach so that's something I've talked
about in other videos I actually did a
science explain video on it and there's
quite a bit of literature on intuitive
eating I get a little bit of pushback
even from folks in the science-based
community I think mostly just because of
the name it kind of sounds like almost
like a new AEG kind of hippie type idea
so sometimes I'll call it Auto regulated
eating because I think that that kind of
does describe it a little bit better but
whatever you call it it's basically
based on three main principles which I
didn't make up actually draw them from
the peer-reviewed literature and first
one is that you give yourself
unconditional permission to eat when
you're hungry and what food is desired
and for a lot of people that sets them
off because they think well if I follow
that principle I will just tell them
stuffed and there's absolutely no way I
could cut using an approach like that
but there are other rules that sort of
negate that freaking possible so the
other rule is you rely on internal
hunger and satiety cues to determine how
much to eat so what a lot of people
think that that means is you eat until
you're full but that isn't necessarily
the case it doesn't mean that you eat to
fullness
it just means you gauge your fullness as
you're eating and then once you're to a
certain point where you're sufficiently
full then you stop so depending on your
appetite that maybe say 50% of fullness
or maybe 80% of fullness it's going to
be different for different people but
instead of having a set number of
calories that you're going to eat at
each sitting instead you're using
internal signals to determine that and
then the third one is to eat for
physical rather than emotional or
environmental reasons and this is a
really important one because people who
say oh if I do intuitive eating or if I
don't track I'm just going to go
completely off the rails to me that
implies that they're probably eating for
environmental or social or perhaps
emotional reasons in that by definition
isn't actually an adherent approach to
intuitive evening
and then as a bodybuilder I had two more
rules to that so the other one is I
tried to eat roughly 25 to 35 or 40
grams of protein per meal and I try to
eat four to five meals per day so that
ensures that my total daily protein
targets are hid and I'm kind of
distributing that in a way that I think
is probably most optimal based on the
muscle protein synthesis data that we
have and then the other thing is that I
use a body weight scale as a sort of
metric for gauging my progress so rather
than using the macros as sort of like an
objective measure I really rely on the
scale so if say you know on average I'm
up a little bit over a few days then
I'll kind of calibrate and that's where
the sort of auto regulated aspect comes
in and then intentionally sort of reduce
my intake for the next couple of days so
this is the approach that I've basically
been using it probably sounds a little
bit more complicated than it actually is
when you think about all that you know
the five principles and what-have-you
but ultimately it just comes down to I
think having good willpower having
enough willpower to know when to stop
and I think that just over the course of
my own dieting history I've come to know
where that point is I kind of have an
idea of where I have to stop in order to
lose fat and you have to remember that
like you want your brain to work with
you in this process so you want to be
eating in a way that's going to allow
you to achieve your goal which is fat
loss so you have to be reminding
yourself of that when you have a meal
and you kind of have to weigh out your
options you know is it worth it for me
to have this food because you know it
contains a lot of calories you know you
also have this goal of losing fat and so
you just have to make that educated
decision in the moment and if you do
decide to have it you have to sort of
rely on these internal hunger signals
that you've sort of developed and really
honed in on to allow you to turn to
determine when to stop
so that's basically what I've been doing
a few quick benefits of this approach
that I've really liked and especially
since I started with the strict tracking
method they really stand out to me now
because what I found when I was tracking
was I was actually more food focused I
was actually thinking more frequently
about what my next meal was gonna be I
was always planning that out I was
entering it in My Fitness Pal ahead of
times in a lot of cases and that just
caused me to almost think about food
more than I would if I was following an
intuitive approach where I might you
know not even pay attention to it and
then when I start to you know feel of
hunger come on I say okay now it's like
time to have a meal mind you I still try
to space those meals oh but when
tracking it's like it's always at the
forefront of my mind and it actually was
in a way a temptation for me to actually
want to eat more and it made the diet a
little bit more difficult to adhere to
also I found that with the intuitive
approach I tend to make better food
choices so with the tracking approach I
was kind of always trying to find
something tasty to sort of fit in to my
macros whereas with this I don't really
think about it the same I tend to just
emphasize making better sort of more
nutritious food choices and so my focus
is sort of shifted away from the numbers
and towards making just better food
choices ultimately so I would say that
those would be the main two benefits
that I've noticed from intuitive eating
and then the other thing is I do find it
a little bit more socially flexible so
it's a little bit easier to go to events
like this and you can just eat at a
restaurant without having to worry too
much about the nutritional information
because you know that ultimately what is
gonna drive your fat loss is this
caloric balance and if you can regulate
that using your appetite then you don't
need to have a set
number two hit and I think that a lot of
people do with their macro sort of on a
pedestal and they think that there's
something really special about those
numbers whereas in reality as long as
you're you know eating sufficient
protein and you're in a reasonable
caloric deficit assuming your goal is
fat loss and then what the actual
numbers are I think is of significantly
less importance so I think that that's
pretty much everything on that one thing
I would say just to keep in mind is that
I would consider this somewhat more of
an advanced approach so for people who
say don't have that basic nutritional
knowledge it might be hard for them to
do an intuitive diet because they may
just so happen to choose foods that are
you know too high in calorie that it may
not be easy for them to calibrate their
their hunger in that way or in as a fact
of of a way as someone who was a little
bit more educated but if you have
experience tracking macros you generally
know what's in foods I think that this
can be a pretty effective approach and
one that's probably worth trying out and
so for me I've pretty much gotten close
to where I want to be in terms of body
composition moving forward from here I'm
probably going to continue with the
intuitive approach and if I need to get
to that point where I'm digging again or
if things happen to stall then I'll
probably track for a little bit make
sure I'm in the the right ballpark with
my numbers and then just kind of use
that as a guide for what foods and what
meals I'm eating on the more intuitive
approach
so hopefully that made some sense if you
would like more detail on that or some
of the research behind it I'm a link of
video up here of a science explained
video that I did on intuitive eating I
think it's a good approach not
necessarily for everyone I think that
diet just like training and you know
it's meant to be individualized but if
it's something you're interested in
hearing more about and check out that
video or if you want to you can comment
any questions you have below I'll do my
best to be active down there but for now
I think that's gonna wrap this one up
guys thank you so much for watching if
you enjoyed the video please give me a
thumbs up now if you made it out to the
expo thank you so much a lot of you guys
came out and it was really sweet getting
to meet a bunch of you guys do you have
any new don't forget to subscribe and
I'll see you all you guys here in the
next video which is going to be a chest
workout with the mountain dog we killed
a lot of chest workout and you guys are
gonna love this video also stay tuned
for that one and I'll see you guys next
time