okay welcome everyone to the first
episode of technique Tuesday where every
week we're gonna be taking an in-depth
look at the lost art and science of
training technique just as a quick
general outline for the most part we're
gonna be breaking each exercise up into
four sections so we'll look at the
muscles we're gonna be targeting how to
set up for the exercise will look at
execution of the movement and then
common errors that I see many people
make so without further ado let's jump
right into it with the benchpress
exercise so the muscles we'll be
targeting here in order of involvement
are the PEC major both the sternal so
the mid and lower and clavicular or
upper heads the triceps brachii the
anterior or front deltoid and to a
lesser extent the lats but they'll
actually only be active when the
shoulder is behind the torso that's only
at the very bottom of the press and the
primary actions being trained or
horizontal shoulder adduction which will
be carried out mainly by the pecs in the
anterior deltoids some degree of
shoulder flexion carried out by the
upper pecs in the front delt
and elbow extension which will be mainly
handled by the triceps now before we get
into the full set up I think it's
important to emphasize here that you
should only try to compare your bench
strength to your starting place and not
anyone elses bench strength because
there are just so many extraneous
factors that can contribute to
performance on this lift like your arm
length ribcage size muscle origins and
insertions your lumbar spine mobility
the size and strength of your upper back
for creating a stable base of support
and on and on okay so the setup on the
bench press is extremely important as
you may want to play this back a couple
of times what I'm going to go through
first is technically a strength focused
powerlifting style bench press however
for reasons I've explained in other
videos to do with maximizing load
minimizing injury risk and optimizing
overall PEC recruitment I still think
this style of bench press is a great
mass builder for anyone with the primary
goal of building size still throw the
video explains some
that you can make if you purely have
bodybuilding interests here we go first
you want to double-check that you have
the right weight on both sides that the
bar is centered in the middle of the
rack and that you have a spotter handy
if your training at high efforts you
want to lie flat on the bench with your
head back behind the bar with your feet
up on the bench and you want to squeeze
your shoulder blades together keeping
them in this retracted position
throughout the whole setup and execution
of the lift set up your arch by lifting
your arms up and grabbing the bar with a
shoulder width grip or you can reach
back and push against the uprights of
the bench now but I personally just
prefer to grab the bar you want to lift
your hips up high while thinking about
pulling your shoulder blades to your
butt which will help force you into
scapular depression and push your upper
body forward while keeping your feet in
place but you can go up onto your toes
if you find you can get more arch that
way now at this point you should have
your back planted down on the bench and
your eyes should be directly under the
barbell you want to position your lower
body for leg drive by lowering one foot
at a time
positioning your feet as far back as you
comfortably can and keep your legs in
close to the bench when viewed from
front on if a regulation technique your
heels should be planted on the ground so
you may have to externally rotate your
feet or point your toes out to get your
heels down also make sure you've dropped
your hips down so that your butt is
touching the bench now you want to take
your grip with at this point i widen my
grip which is definitely on the wider
side since I'm simply stronger with a
wider grip now it's worth noting that
research has found that wider grips will
target the sternal head of the pecs and
the anterior delts more while a closer
grip will target the triceps in
clavicular or upper chest more but I
think using a variety of grip width and
training or experimenting and finding
what works best for you make sense
however an important factor in
determining grip width should be whether
or not your joints are stacked from the
rear position meaning the wrist should
be roughly positioned over the elbows
however I think it's also worth noting
that some advanced power lifters won't
always keep the joints perfectly stacked
so they can get out wider but in any
case one 2007 study suggests that a max
width of 1.5 times V acromial distance
so roughly 1.5 times shoulder-width is
for reducing injury without seriously
compromising maximal strength another
important point when it comes to grip
now you want to make sure you have your
wrist joints stacked meaning from the
side view your wrist should be directly
below your knuckles you want to avoid
excessive hyperextension here of the
wrist and you can correct this by
thinking about punching the ceiling as a
cue right before the lift off I'll do
one last check to make sure my shoulder
blades are retracted and depressed by
cranking my elbows forward which I think
of as me sort of screwing my back into
position now for those strictly
interested in bodybuilding only the same
general setup can still apply however
you won't need as extreme of an arch you
may want to take slightly more of a
narrow grip to increase the range of
motion and because your arch will be
smaller your feet can be a little
further forward but still for the sake
of shoulder health and stability you'll
still want to keep your shoulder blades
retracted throughout the lift and
maintain some arch in your lumbar spine
now with that said I think people do
tend to exaggerate the difference and
range of motion between the big arch and
a small arch and I think it's worth
noting that the distance traveled by the
bar isn't necessarily the same as joint
range of motion now for example just
compare the joint angles in these two
benchpress styles the position of the
humerus relative to the torso at the end
of the range of motion is actually very
similar despite the fact that the bar
will have traveled further in the flat
back press so I think you should get to
work on building your arch and just not
worry too much about limiting your range
of motion when using it so we've got the
bench press setup and now it's time to
actually execute the set and we're gonna
break down the execution into four
distinct phases so we have unrack brace
descend and press so 1st unrack the bar
by having your spotter help you lift out
not up or if you're unwrapping by
yourself you may want to keep your butt
elevated for the liftoff component and
then drop your hips down once you've
unwrapped however I personally prefer to
just have a spotter handy whenever going
near a maximal effort now to just help
with the lift off and at this point you
want to ensure you have four main points
of contact so your head your upper back
your glutes and your feet should all be
planted and now that you're in position
you want
take a deep breath into your gut
pressing the air out against your belt
and if you have one and you can also
queue yourself to puff your chest out at
this point to expand your ribcage as
much as possible grip the bar as hard as
you can and you can optionally use the
cue to bend the bar or to rip the bar in
half which will activate your upper back
muscles to help maintain tightness
during the descent you want to drop your
elbows down at a 45 degree angle
relative to your torso when viewed from
the top and there is a unanimous
agreement on this from the best
powerlifting coaches but when viewed
from the side on the elbows shouldn't be
too far out in front of the bar and you
can make it a goal to keep the elbow
stacked under the bar and when viewed
from the side the descending bar path
should be down and slightly forward at
the same time you want to touch your
chest just below nipple level toward the
bottom of your sternum which should be
the highest contact point on your chest
you can optionally pause on your chest
for about a second until the bar becomes
emotionless which is required for a
competitive powerlifting but if you're
purely bodybuilding you can simply tap
your chest without a pause now just make
sure you ensure that the touch is still
well controlled and you're not just
bouncing the weight off your chest
so after your optional pause you want to
explode the bar off your chest
driving your heels into the floor and
you want to think about pressing the bar
back toward your face and off your chest
rather than just driving the bar
straight up you can also think about
pushing the floor away from you with
your feet to help initiate that leg
drive and enforce this back and up bar
path now of course you don't want to
press the bar too far back so that it
hits the rack or you lose control now
just bring it back into balance over the
shoulder joint restoring that starting
position now on the way up you're likely
to encounter a sticking point if
training at high efforts where the lift
will feel most difficult and it's likely
where you'll fail the lift if going for
a max effort set our research shows that
it tends to be in the first 20 to 40% of
the movement so about 3 to 4 inches off
the chest but that will be individual
typically the more advanced you are the
lower the sticking point will be the
newer you are the more it'll be in the
mid-range so to break through the
sticking point you want to make sure
you're pressing the bar up and back not
just straight up you can also try
flaring the elbows out a bit more as
this is going to get your pecs more in
to help the triceps and you can think
about lifting the bar off your chest
with max speed and that'll also likely
help you sort of blast through that
point where deceleration would normally
happen but personally I think the
simplest solution is that you probably
just need stronger pecs and triceps so
once you're accelerating past the
sticking point you now have the option
to exhale but you can hold your breath
until you completely lock the lift out
and as you near the end range of motion
the bar should complete that arc back
toward the starting position with the
bar back over the nipples now at this
point we would just repeat the process
starting with bracing descending and
pressing again for however many reps
your program calls for so three common
errors that I see all the time with the
bench press our first over tucking or
under tucking the elbows now the cue to
tuck your elbows actually originated in
equipped powerlifting but without a
bench shirt this cue probably won't be
as helpful to you now it's probably just
as common to see people not tucking
enough completely just flaring their
elbows out to be paralleled with the bar
and I think this is also not ideal since
it puts your shoulder at an increased
risk of injury and it makes the bar path
much less efficient since the bar is
forced to go straight up and down
most people just simply won't be as
strong benching with completely flared
elbows now like I said earlier a slight
tuck is good however as you get to that
sticking point more of a flair might
help you get the elbows and more stacked
under the bar and allow you to finish up
the lift if you have difficulty figuring
out exactly how you're using your elbows
I'd recommend doing slow eccentric
presses with lighter weights or
throughout the entire negative you're
being mindful of where your elbows are
and where they're going now the second
common error is benching with a
completely flat back and you may not
need quite as extreme of an arch as a
competitive power lifter however
maintaining some arch in your spine
confers at least three major benefits
first the lumbar and thoracic vertebrae
and intervertebral discs are actually
safer in the lordotic or arched position
the more decline pushing angle is safer
for the shoulder joint and you'll most
likely be simply stronger in this
position meaning more total load is
gonna be placed on the active muscle
groups now the third error that I see a
lot is lack of leg drive if your feet
are just positioned wherever or just out
in front of you on the bench
rather than tucked in behind you you're
just not maximizing your strength
potential on the bench press now
figuring out how to use your legs in the
benchpress may take time but I think
it's really important to master so I've
linked a few really good articles down
there in the description and alongside
this video I'm gonna be releasing my
bench press specialization program like
most of my programs this is more of a
bench press training manual and it
covers way more of the detail that I
didn't have time to touch in this video
and it comes with an eight-week training
program that's designed for intermediate
to advanced level lifters I have the
goal of increasing strength on their
bench press but it's actually more than
just a bench program that's actually an
upper lower training split that'll have
you in the gym 5 days per week and it
has a specific focus on developing bench
strength as that exercises hit three
times per week using daily undulating
periodization so the program is $29.99
however if you use the discount code
technique Tuesday you'll be able to save
10 bucks off the program knocking it
down to $19.99 for the first week of
launch and you can learn more about that
over on my website if you go to Jeff
nipper comm or you can click that first
link in the description I really hope
that you enjoyed the video I've been
excited about this series for a long
time why we've finally got it underway
please leave me a like if you enjoyed
the video don't forget to subscribe if
you happen to be new and I'll see you
guys all here next Tuesday