hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization weekly tip
number 34 chew gum to reduce hunger
weird i wonder if that works let's find
out what science hashtag trust the
science has to say so here's the thing
studies do show that on average
chewing gum has a small effect on
appetite reduction in subsequent meals
so for example if you eat a meal and you
wait four hours you eat another meal
some people
half the people get
chewing gum in between and they chew it
for a while and some people get a whole
lot of nothing people just talk to them
and then they measure
the second meal you can eat as much food
as you want
and they measure how much you eat and
typically people eat a bit less so if
you're getting pretty hungry in the last
few weeks of a really gnarly diet this
is a tool you can put in your toolbox
not literally because you've gone in
your toolbox that's fucking weird
especially pre-chewed gum do you guys
ever chew your gum and then stick it on
something and then find it later and
chew it again
yeah me neither that's disgusting
i would never do that in any case
it's something that maybe you could try
but before you go running off on this
quick tip and trying it and chewing tons
of gum
here are some major caveats to this
first of all there are not a ton of
studies on this there's some replication
but not a ton of it so we're not super
confident it's possible dare i say even
more likely than not but it's not like a
sure thing right it's not like hey if
you cut your calories you're gonna lose
weight that's for sure this is like
maybe something to try secondly the
effect is very small like 30 calories
per meal small
so
anything can help and if you're that
hungry it's like at this point someone's
like hey i can reduce your hunger a
little bit but it's just a little bit if
you're fucking starving like yes the
answer is fucking yes give me all the
gum in the world sure but don't expect
it to like revolutionize you're like
yeah week nine of my diet i introduce
gum it's really gonna change the game
and i'm gonna work like that
another one point number three these
effects are not for everyone
most people had a small reduction in
hunger in these studies some people had
no reduction in hunger some people the
gum chewing seemed to correlate to an
increase in hunger holy fucks imagine
you think this is a sure deal and you
eat a bunch of gum and you're like ah i
just want to eat my own arm it would be
really really really bad idea so
lastly
if you're ultra hungry
a lot of times what works in that case
if you're a little bit hungry the gum
can help and probably will
if you are super psycho ultra hungry a
lot of times it pays to reduce your food
focus altogether which means don't do
anything related to food including
chewing including getting flavor
sensation so if you have a job let's say
you're like a computer programmer or
something
sorry a software developer that's the
new term
you're on a super psycho diet and you're
really ultra hungry the best thing for
you to do is eat a meal finish the meal
put the food away get the fuck away from
all food code
code for four hours
alarm goes off it's time for meal number
two eat a meal put it away if you have
anything to remind your food including
sweet diet sodas you get a little bit of
that sweet diet soda you look oh man you
know what would fucking go great this is
a whole bag of fucking chips you start
to go nuts and it makes the process more
painful gum
most chewing gum i don't even know huh
scott's a video guy is it possible to
purchase at a regular store flavorless
chewing gum
i don't think so you could probably get
that online but like you might have to
look for a while the thing is gum is
flavored and generally flavored good and
if you're really psychotically hungry
even the delicious flavor of just gum
makes you fucking want more man you're
like gum's not enough i need candy god
damn it nice juicy fruit gum when you're
on a diet you're like i first of all
could eat the whole fucking pack and
second of all i could actually eat it
like swallow the gum they tell you when
you're a little kid not to do that
they're lying
just kidding i don't know what happens
when you swallow gum probably nothing
your your digestive system is shit so
that's if you're a little bit hungry
this might be a cool strategy to try to
make that little bit of hunger just a
tiny bit better and if you're
psychotically hungry you can try this it
might help but a lot of times it hurts
because it keeps you food focused it
keeps you chewing you produce more
saliva you think about food so maybe
just move away from the thing altogether
yeah
a lot of times when you injury science
and shit it gets a whole lot more
nuanced than just this works and this
doesn't but hopefully you learned
something
go chew gum
see you next time
you