and it was Mike mener being like H
people always ask me you just do one set
why wouldn't you do another that's like
the stupidest idea in the world and it's
like multiple set programs were proven
more effective definitively in the early
2000s since then it's not even enough
for debate like there are 52 set per
week programs 45 set per week programs
27 set per week programs 18 set per
programs that all outperform the smaller
set week programs that were compared in
those studies directly so if you're
talking about training a muscle with a
total of four work sets per week versus
a total of 20 30 40 sets per week that's
that a conversation anyone else is
having except for Mike Menor people
because he said some shit he made up way
back then look I said a lot of shit I
made up because we didn't have any data
shit I was wrong about you don't see me
talking about it anymore fucking wrong
about it