[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I have five rules for
you to follow for your quad training to
get the biggest possible legs that you
can these five helpful hopefully tips
will get your legs bigger so let's just
get to it cuz you don't have time for
videos you got time to get big legs
first quadriceps like many other muscles
seem to grow best when they are
stretched under heavy loads which means
that if you're doing depth squats hacks
squats leg presses you want to go deep
for a big stretch take those quads as
far as that range of motion goes until
your calves touch your hamstrings or put
another way depth before
dishonor rule number two when you're
pushing whatever Implement be it a
regular squat hack squat leg press
pendulum squat Smith machine Squad I can
continue but I won't make sure that
you're pushing your weight through your
heel heels as well as your toes if
you're just on your tippy toes those are
sissy squats they can be effective but
in most cases you want to produce as
much force as possible recruiting the
big strong gnarly motor units in your
quads to get as jacked as possible which
means Force through your heels and
through your toes at the same time an
even foot dispersion of force rule
number three is as you descend in squats
Smith machine squats leg presses Etc you
name it you want to in most cases to
have your knees come way over your toes
at the bottom first in a squat you sit
back and down but then as soon as you've
tilted your hips and broken through you
want to make sure that you sit straight
down letting your knees come forward
while your heels stay on the ground or
on the platform that you're
using as your
quads are involved in that forward knee
movement they are going to be stretched
a ton underload put into a very
mechanically disadvantageous position
from which they will have to work super
hard and thus get tons of growth and the
big benefit is you don't even have to
use that much external weight if you
know how to squat properly 100 lb less
than you used to squat for reps can zap
your quads better than that 100 pounds
more ever could rule number four is to
match the repetition range you use to
the exercise type that you're using it
here's an example of things that work
for most people definitely feel free to
be creative and if this doesn't work for
you adjust it to your own needs but here
we go sets of 5 to 10 are probably best
for squats why because squats are
conducive to lifting really heavy and
also there's such a whole body movement
and involve a lot of your anti-gravity
muscles for balance and coordination
that they take a ton of metabolic drive
and they generate a ton of systemic and
cardiovascular fatigue so that if you're
doing many more than 10 repetitions a
lot of times your breathing becomes a
limiting factor and the last several
reps just aren't quality and won't
stimulate as much muscle gain is if you
made the weight heavier and kept the
sets to five to 10 reps on average sure
you can do sets of 12 but you guys know
what I mean if your breathing is what's
keeping you back it's not a great
hypertrophy exercise great breathing
exercise but we're not here to do cardio
we're here to get big quads next if
you're doing hack squats in most cases
you want to take advantage of the fact
that you can go a little bit more High
rep because it braces you a bit better
sure you can do hack squats with set a 5
to 10 but a lot of times that much knee
flexion without any hip help is a bit
much of an isolation exercise and it
doesn't feel 100% as safe for the
quadriceps you can totally do your hack
squats with sets of 5 to 10 but I would
recommend the best rep range for me on
average for hack squats is sets of 10 to
15 reps 15 and up for me in my personal
experience and most the folks I've
trained with starts to become again a
little bit more cardio and not enough
heavy resistance training that actually
trains the target muscles for leg
presses the best range that I found is
sets of 10 to 20 again you can do sets
of five and sets of eight in leg press
but that's a bit heavy that's probably
better resered for squats anything above
20 reps is just cardio but the leg press
let you sit down and braces you in so
there's a wide range through which you
could use it intersecting somewhat with
a hack squat but also giving you that 15
to 20 rep range to play with variation
lastly the term heavy leg extensions
makes almost no sense to me why would
you do something heavy in a position in
which your body limits you from using
heavy load and even trying very hard
your quads activate better when your
heel and foot have something to press
against than just extending your knee
against
resistance heavy leg extensions are just
not the best use of either heavy or leg
extensions you want to go heavy do
squats but if you want to leg extensions
they're an excellent exercise that you
can do for variation in the higher rep
ranges you can do leg extensions for 10
or more reps but the real money is 15 or
even 20 to 30 reps in leg extension sets
especially if you do drop sets super
sets my rep match reps all of that stuff
fries you out thus you have a whole
spectrum of which extra exercises to use
more often when you're going heavier
which one's for intermediate loading and
which On's for High Reps thus you can
match the exercise to the Loading and
vice versa and get the most out of the
movements as far as Effectiveness and as
far as safety lastly if you're really
serious about quad training and you want
to take your quad training to the next
level buy yourself some weightlifting
shoes they don't have to be super
expensive but any weightlifting shoe
that's literally the sport of
weightlifting it's not like I'm saying
oh a lifting shoe for lifting weights
it's a weightlifting one-word shoe if
you Google that it's the shoes with the
heel that rises as it goes those shoes
are going to just completely upgrade
your quad training to the next level
they allow an unbelievable amount of
even support so that pushing through
your toes and your heels is super super
easy to do and almost intuitive they
provide you with a ton of stability and
also by raising your heel they extend
your ankle mobility and let you get
super deep stretching the quad without
involving the lower back and the hips as
much and thus making all of your quad
training even more targeted for the
quads folks that's all the tips for now
please shoot some questions that you
have in the comments below I'll try to
respond to a
few like subscribe and we'll see you
next
time