so it's honestly hard to know where to
even begin with a video like this
because of the sheer amount of fat loss
misinformation there is circulating
online but i've narrowed things down
here and today we're going to discuss
the truth behind 10 common myths and
lies you've been told that are holding
you back from achieving the lean body
you're after this video is going to
focus specifically on the dietary side
of things since that's by far the most
important area you need to master when
it comes to losing fat and i'm not
exaggerating when i say that if you're
currently not seeing consistent results
from your efforts then you need to
understand the information in this video
and if you just take a few minutes to
watch this through and apply each point
to your program it will make a big
difference for you fat loss is not an
overly complex process you've just been
led to believe that it is by all these
coaches and influencers who are trying
to sell you on the latest fads and
gimmicks or by people who just don't
know any better themselves and not only
am i going to outline each myth and
explain why it's incorrect and what to
do instead but because things are
virtually never black and white when it
comes to fitness related topics i'm also
going to give you the element of truth
behind each one as well to give you a
proper big picture understanding so that
you can get leaner and stay leaner for
good the information on this channel is
not about quick fixes okay this is about
equipping you with the real tools you
need to make permanent long lasting
changes all right fat loss myth number
one is the notion that calories don't
matter so this is actually a very common
narrative circulating around these days
on youtube and social media from various
weight loss gurus and nutrition experts
okay the idea that losing fat is purely
a matter of eating certain foods or
spacing your meals out in a specific way
or following some special macronutrient
ratio and that calories themselves are
not important in reality this could not
possibly be further from the truth a
calorie is just a unit of measurement
that indicates how much energy there is
in the foods that you eat and in the
tissues on your body and to stimulate
your body to break down stored fat you
need to be in a net calorie deficit
where the amount of energy that you're
consuming is not enough to match your
energy expenditure so that your body has
to utilize your fat stores to make up
the difference if intake matches
expenditure then your body can just fuel
itself from the foods that you're eating
and your fat stores will be left alone
for another time calories make up the
underlying foundation of the entire fat
loss process and a calorie deficit is
the most fundamental thing that must be
in place if you want to get leaner
there's no perfect one size fits all
here but roughly 500 calories below your
maintenance level give or take that's a
good general zone to aim for that'll be
large enough to stimulate significant
fat loss but small enough that it can be
sustained over a long-term period now
what's the element of truth here the
element of truth is that specifically
tracking calories is not necessarily a
must for every person depending on your
individual situation in terms of how
much fat you're currently carrying how
lean you're ultimately trying to get
what your previous diet was like
just your general ability to select
foods and manage portions based on
eyeballing things and listening to
hunger cues depending on all those
things it can definitely still be
possible to maintain a calorie deficit
without consciously knowing exactly how
many calories you're actually eating but
this doesn't mean that calories don't
matter it just means that in some cases
tracking calories on paper doesn't
matter and those are two separate
arguments in addition the other element
of truth is to keep in mind that even if
you are tracking calories there's no way
to do it with a hundred percent accuracy
your energy expenditure will vary from
day to day depending on a wide variety
of factors there's no way to precisely
track exactly how many calories are in
every single food that you eat and
different foods will behave differently
in your body depending on their
composition in terms of macronutrient
profile micronutrients and fiber however
calorie tracking doesn't have to be
perfect in order to get the practical
outcome that you're after even if you're
just say 85 accurate that's still going
to be good enough to achieve consistent
fat loss and so the people who use the
argument that calorie tracking is flawed
therefore it's useless they're just
jumping to way too extreme of a
conclusion a reasonably accurate
approximation will still be close enough
and it doesn't have to be perfect in
order to be useful all right fat loss
myth number two going all the way to the
other end of the spectrum which is that
food quality doesn't matter and the only
thing you need to do is just maintain a
calorie deficit so this is another
statement that just gets mindlessly
repeated over and over again in online
fitness content but unfortunately it's
just a huge oversimplification and even
though it's technically true it doesn't
necessarily help people all that much in
a practical sense yes a calorie deficit
is what fat loss ultimately comes down
to but that doesn't really tell you
anything in terms of how to actually go
about creating a calorie deficit in a
healthy sustainable way saying just be
in a calorie deficit that's kind of like
telling somebody that in order to win at
basketball they just need to put the
ball through the hoop it tells you what
the ultimate goal is to aim for but not
how to get there so to keep your hunger
levels minimized and provide your body
with all the nutrients that it needs for
optimal functioning both in and out of
the gym so that you can actually
maintain your deficit long term food
quality absolutely does matter and
ideally you want to be basing the bulk
of your diet probably at least 80 to 90
percent around minimally processed whole
food sources since they're gonna be more
calorie dense and higher in fiber if
you're trying to get a large percentage
of your calories from calorie dense
processed items then it's going to be a
lot harder because you won't feel
satiated and you'll be much more likely
to overeat so a calorie deficit is the
ultimate goal and proper food selection
is one very important factor that will
aid you in achieving that now the
element of truth here is that yes
technically speaking you could eat
nothing but pizza donuts and cookies all
day long and still lose body fat if your
total calories were in the proper range
and so this is still an important
concept to understand to really hammer
home the fundamental importance of a
calorie deficit it's the primary factor
at play and so no individual food is
strictly off limits or something that
you need to fear or avoid your body
doesn't view your diet within the
context of individual food items it only
sees the entire picture as a whole with
everything combined and it's the total
calories the total macronutrients the
micronutrients and the fiber that's
going to determine your results over the
long term so if you just use some basic
moderation you get the majority of your
intake from those nutrient-dense whole
food sources then you can still add your
favorite treat foods into the mix okay
you don't need to eat clean 24 7 to lose
fat and trying to do that will probably
decrease your chances for success by
causing you to feel overly restricted
fat loss myth number three is that there
are certain fat burning foods you should
eat that are going to significantly
speed up your metabolism and cause you
to lose fat at a faster rate now this
makes for great click bait video titles
and viral social media posts but in
reality there are no individual
superfoods that are going to have some
kind of dramatic effect on your results
and there are definitely no negative
calorie foods that literally will burn
more calories than they contain and if
adding a certain food item on top of
your existing intake causes your total
calories to increase overall then it
doesn't matter what fat burning
properties it supposedly has it's still
going to be moving your energy balance
in the opposite direction for example
one piece of advice you might hear is
that to get leaner you should focus on
eating more healthy fat well consuming
sufficient daily fat is important for
overall health and satiation but if you
take that advice literally and you're
just aimlessly snacking on say bags of
almonds or dark chocolate which are
extremely calorie dense or you're
liberally adding olive oil to your meals
or god forbid dumping sticks of butter
into your coffee because you heard that
these foods will improve fat loss the
net result will almost certainly be a
much higher calorie consumption overall
now what's the element of truth here
it's that yes there are certain foods
that are less calorie dense than others
and that are more satiating than others
and so in that sense they can support
your fat loss efforts and make
maintaining a calorie deficit an easier
process for example potatoes are ranked
highest on the satiation index so that
could be one potential benefit of
including that specific food in your
diet
berries are a highly nutrient-dense food
that contain very few calories for their
volume lean protein sources are also low
in calories and have a higher thermic
effect vegetables are high in fiber and
are also very low calories so yeah there
are certain foods that can have benefits
as part of an overall fat loss diet but
no individual food on its own is going
to have some kind of magical effect or
hack your metabolism or whatever other
buzz words a lot of these fitness
influencers try to use fat loss myth
number four opposite of the previous one
which is the notion of specific fats
storing foods that you must avoid now
actually we already touched on this
because it was one of the elements of
truth from before and so you already
understand that no particular food is
just going to go straight to your fat
stores when you eat it and that the
cause of fat gain is not from any
individual food or individual
macronutrient on its own the cause of
fat gain is consuming too many calories
from your entire diet as a whole however
while there's technically no such thing
as a fat storing food it's still
important to recognize that high calorie
dense foods are much easier to overeat
and so you do need to be a lot more
mindful with them or the total calories
are going to rack up very very quickly
and not only that but high carb high fat
foods will also have a lower thermic
effect meaning your body won't burn as
many calories digesting those foods in
comparison to higher protein foods
protein has a thermic effect of around
20 to 30 percent carbs are only about
five to ten percent and fats are very
low at zero to three percent and on top
of that minimally processed whole foods
also require more energy to digest
compared to highly processed foods now
the overall difference from those things
isn't going to be huge but it is one
factor to take into account and it does
influence your daily calorie expenditure
in a small way you also have to consider
that those hyper palatable foods can
also potentially act as trigger foods
where eating them causes you to crave
even more which can then have a
spiraling effect two cookies on their
own might not be an issue but if two
cookies leads to four and four leads to
ten and this is happening on a regular
basis for you those calories can
definitely add up and make a real dent
in your progress now this will affect
everyone to different degrees so it just
comes down to knowing yourself and your
own psychology and being able to decide
exactly how much treat food you are
realistically able to add into your diet
without it having a snowballing effect
fat loss myth number five is that the
best way to lose fat is to just listen
to your body and eat intuitively based
on your hunger levels and your cravings
just honor what your body desires and
don't actively restrict anything now
this sounds nice in theory but the huge
problem with that approach and the major
flaw that people who promote this idea
tend to overlook is that the environment
that we live in now is drastically
different from the environment that our
bodies evolved in we've been programmed
over the course of millions of years to
consume calories when they're present
and to crave and get significant
pleasure from high fat high sugar foods
because in the past those were extremely
rare to come by and they were an
efficient source of calories whereas now
we've created an environment where
calorie dense food is absolutely
everywhere in unlimited quantities and
we've engineered that food to be as
hyper palatable as possible so if you
truly go ahead and just listen to your
body and eat purely based on instinct
and based on what feels best in most
cases that will just lead to overeating
just like you need to manually control
your temptations in all areas of life
food is no different and if you want to
lose fat then you're going to need to
use your rational mind and create
structured systems of some kind to
prevent those hard-wired desires from
just taking over because our brains are
not biologically optimized for this
current environment that we live in the
element of truth here is that if you
have a reasonable foundation of
nutritional knowledge and just general
fitness experience and you're making
intelligent food choices overall and not
literally eating whatever you crave the
most at all times of the day then yeah
for some people eating based on feel can
still be effective this is especially
true if someone is carrying a
significant amount of excess fat and
their previous diet was very poor in
which case just generally cleaning
things up a bit and being more mindful
of portions that can go a long way at
least in the initial stages until they
get leaner once again not everybody has
to trot calories on paper if they've set
their diet up in a way that makes
overeating a lot less likely by default
so if you're basing your intake around
nutrient-dense whole foods you're
getting in enough protein you're spacing
out your meals in a way that controls
your appetite best you're consuming
plenty of fluids throughout the day and
combining that with a solid resistance
training program and some additional
movement throughout the day then yeah
that might be enough to put you into a
calorie deficit all on its own without
having to look at any specific numbers
if you're finding this information
helpful so far don't forget to hit that
like button and subscribe to the channel
to stay up to date on future videos and
fat loss myth number six getting a bit
more specific here and it's that low
carb diets are superior for fat loss so
the way oversimplified line of reasoning
usually goes that when you eat carbs you
raise insulin and insulin tells your
body to store fat therefore you won't
lose fat by eating carbs now yes insulin
is technically a storage hormone but it
still comes down to how many calories
there are to be stored or not stored for
the entire day as a whole you can't
magically override thermodynamics and
total energy in versus total energy out
will always dictate net fat loss when
you restrict carbs you're gonna see more
initial weight loss because you'll
retain less water and you'll store less
glycogen which is why a lot of people
get the false idea that low carb diets
are so effective since they see that big
initial drop in weight loss but as far
as actual fat loss goes which is
obviously what we're concerned with here
when total calories and total protein
are the same low carb diets are no more
effective than moderate to high carb
diets and this includes ketogenic diets
as well for example this meta-analysis
looked at over 20 controlled feeding
studies where calories and protein were
equated and there was no advantage to
carbohydrate restriction the element of
truth here is that low carb diets might
burn more fat if you personally prefer
eating that way and it allows you to
stick to your calorie deficit more
easily over the long term when it comes
to macronutrient ratios as long as
you're consuming sufficient protein for
the day then how you allocate your carbs
and fats is really just a matter of
individual preference and you can
experiment for yourself to see what
feels best for you if that's low carb
then that's totally fine but if it's
moderate to high carb that's completely
fine as well and it's not going to
hinder your fat loss again as long as
you're in a net calorie deficit and if
we just logically look at the real world
we see people on all ends of the
spectrum who have successfully lost fat
using any number of different approaches
from low carb high fat high protein to
high carb moderate fat moderate protein
to everything in between the common
denominator is always the calorie
deficit all right fat loss myth number
seven looking at the meal frequency side
of things which is that intermittent
fasting results in more total fat loss
once again when total calories are
equated there is no clear advantage to
using a fasting protocol versus having
evenly spaced meals neither one is
inherently better or worse with
intermittent fasting you'll lose more
fat during the fasted period since
you're not eating anything at all it's
kind of funny how fasting proponents
point this out as if it's some sort of
unique insight like yeah when you're not
eating anything you'll of course utilize
more body fat however later on in the
day you're going to store more fat
during that period because you've
condensed a disproportionately higher
number of calories into a shorter time
frame fat loss and fat storage are not
these simple on off switches okay
they're both happening simultaneously
all the time and it's the sum total of
all of these processes at the end of the
day the week in the month that's what's
gonna determine net fat gain versus net
fat loss and with continuous feeding say
four meals a day every four hours things
are just gonna be more evenly spaced
throughout the day rather than happening
in bigger up and down spikes now the
element of truth just like with low-carb
diets is that fasting can result in
improved fat loss if you personally
prefer it so if like many people you
find that intermittent fasting controls
your appetite better and makes it less
likely that you'll overeat or you just
prefer the simplicity of it and you feel
better physically or mentally by fasting
during certain portions of the day then
by all means go for it i personally use
intermittent fasting myself 16 hours
fasted and then eight hours fed not
because it has any special fat burning
benefits calorie for calorie but simply
because i prefer allocating my calories
to a bit later in the day and having a
smaller number of larger meals versus a
larger number of smaller meals when it
comes to meal frequency in general just
lay things out in whatever way you
personally enjoy the most and that you
can sustain long term now the one caveat
here though is that if you want to fully
maximize muscle growth ideally you
should probably aim for three separate
daily protein feedings or more total
protein is still by far the most
important factor but if you want to
achieve a hundred percent of your
potential muscle gains one or two daily
protein feedings probably won't be
optimal fat loss myth number eight on
the issue of appetite is the idea that
you should never feel hungry during a
fat loss diet and that if you are it
means that you're overly restricting
yourself and that you need to eat more
in reality this is just wishful thinking
the idea that you can eat in an ongoing
surplus for weeks months or even years
and enjoy those extra calories that
cause the excess fat gain but that
there's no price to pay and no sacrifice
involved to go in the opposite direction
that's just not how life works the truth
is that if you never feel any background
hunger at certain periods in the day
chances are that you're probably not in
a calorie deficit in the first place if
you're consistently burning more
calories than you consume what you have
to do to lose body fat your body is
going to send out some hunger signals to
some extent to motivate you to eat now
if someone is carrying a significant
amount of excess fat and their previous
diet was very high in calorie dense
processed foods then hunger might not be
an issue in the initial stages but as
you get leaner and leaner and you
maintain that deficit over time feeling
some degree of hunger at some points in
the day is totally normal it doesn't
mean that something is wrong it's not
going to send you into starvation mode
it's a natural part of the fat loss
process and the key is to minimize it
rather than expecting to eliminate it
completely and it's important to
acknowledge this up front before you
even get started so that you can create
a proper mental relationship to that
hunger and view it as something that's
to be expected and not as a signal that
you should immediately just run to the
fridge now the element of truth is that
while a moderate amount of hunger is
normal you shouldn't be excessively
hungry to the point where it's extremely
uncomfortable and straight up
interfering with your daily tasks in
that case your calorie deficit is
probably too big or you need to adjust
your food choices to create more volume
relative to your calorie consumption or
there could be other issues at play as
well and also keep in mind that this is
not a permanent thing okay you're in a
calorie deficit in order to reach your
fat loss goal but once you get there
then you'll be able to increase your
calories back up to maintenance so the
hunger aspect is just a temporary part
of the process that you have to work
through unless of course you're trying
to get very very lean in which case it
probably will be an ongoing issue that
you'll have to deal with in order to
stay in that condition permanently fat
loss myth number nine bit of a
controversial one but it's the idea that
slow and steady is always the best way
to lose fat so you should always create
a smaller calorie surplus and just focus
on losing fat at a gradual pace from
week to week now i'll include the truth
aspect right off the bat here because
yes in most cases for most individuals
that will be the ideal way to go about
things because it will keep hunger
energy mood libido etc it will keep
those things under control and it will
be more sustainable however depending on
the goals the experience level and the
mindset of the individual there can be a
place for more aggressive cutting phases
muscle loss typically won't be a concern
in the shorter term as long as you keep
your protein intake high and you're
continuing with a solid weight training
program so if you'd really prefer to
just grind through a larger calorie
deficit and get it over with more
quickly that is an option for example
instead of say a four week cut at a 500
calorie deficit maybe you just want to
go harder for two weeks and do a 1000
calorie deficit this is something i
personally do from time to time because
i don't mind suffering a bit more if it
means that i'll get the same outcome
over a shorter time frame but that's
just me and everybody is different so
faster cutting phases can be fine but
generally speaking it's going to be best
suited to those with a bit more
experience who really know how to
structure and implement it properly and
if you are using a more aggressive
calorie deficit then it should probably
only be done over a shorter term period
in order to prevent muscle loss all
right and lastly fat loss myth number 10
is
fat burners now i'm not saying that all
fat loss supplements are completely
useless and will have no benefits at all
but in most cases i would say that they
are very overhyped for what they
actually are which is very often just an
over glorified mix of various stimulant
compounds now there are non-stimulant
fat loss ingredients available as well
but the research in that area is
generally pretty lackluster for the most
part and if those non-stimulant
compounds are effective it's probably
only to a very small degree proper diet
and training will make up the
overwhelming majority of your fat loss
results okay please don't fall for the
marketing hype and falsely believe that
fat burners are going to have some kind
of drastic effect because they just
won't plain and simple basic staple
supplements like protein powder creatine
multivitamin fish oil those are
obviously fine as part of an overall
fitness approach you can check out
realscienceathletics.com which is my own
product line that i personally
formulated based on the supplements that
i do think are genuinely worthwhile code
youtube15 will take 15 off your first
order but fat burner specifically if
further research comes out i could be
proven wrong but as of now i just don't
think it's worth it in most cases now
the phrase most cases is where the
element of truth comes in because for a
smaller percentage of people who have
their diet and training fully dialed in
who can tolerate stimulants well or just
want to experiment with some of those
non-stimulatory fat loss compounds to
potentially provide a very small extra
edge and maximize things 100
then the use of fat loss supplements is
an option as long as it's understood
that the benefits will be minor and that
the primary benefit is not that these
supplements are literally causing you to
burn significant amounts of additional
fat it's really just that by taking in
these various stimulant compounds you'll
feel more energetic and more upbeat
during periods of calorie restriction
and you'll probably get an appetite
suppressing effect as well which can
make the dieting process a bit easier if
you found this video informative and you
want some help getting your fitness
program onto the right track whether
your goal is to lose fat gain muscle or
do both then make sure to visit sean
now.com custom just fill out the short
form on that page and i'll send you back
a free step-by-step workout and diet
plan to maximize your results based on
your individual needs the link for that
is up here as well as in the description
box below here are two more videos i'd
recommend watching now don't forget to
subscribe to the channel and turn on
notifications to stay up to date on
future videos thanks for watching guys
and i will talk to you again soon