welcome to the house of hypertrophy can
you build more muscle by implementing
lengthened supersets with some of your
exercises a new study is the first ever
to explore this firstly what even is a
lengthened superset during exercises
your muscles move from longer to
relatively shorter muscle lengths and
some exercises are most challenging at
relatively shorter muscle lengths calf
Rises tend to be hardest in the plantar
Flex position where you feel a squeeze
of the Cals actually shorter lengths
rows pull downs and pull-ups tend to be
hardest when your arms are more bent and
your hands are closer to your body which
is where the back and biceps are at
relatively shorter lengths dumbbell
lateral and bent over raises are hardest
when the arms are out to the sides where
the shoulder muscles are at relatively
shorter lengths and as a final example
Leos also tend to be challenging when
the knees are relatively more flexed and
the hamstrings are at a shorter position
if you train to failure on these
exercises you tend to fail around that
shorter muscle length position but at
this point you can still squeeze out
some more partial repetitions that have
the muscles at relatively longer lengths
this is what we'll call a lengthened
superset where after you get to or close
to failure with your normal range of
motion on exercises that are hardest at
shorter muscle lengths you then straight
away perform as many partial reps at the
lengthen position as you can now that we
know this let's dive into the new study
23 untrained men were recruited they
trained car phrases on a Smith machine
with a foot on a step subjects moved
from their most dorsy flexed position to
their most planta flexed position to
complete a normal full range of motion
repetition with one leg all subjects
train to momentary failure with their
normal full range of motion momentary
failure is defined as reaching the point
where despite your maximal attempt to do
so you you can't perform the full range
of motion as we know calf raises are
most challenging at the most plantar
Flex position so this leg would have
failed in this position where the calvs
are at a relatively shorter muscle
length with their other leg subjects
also train to momentary failure with a
normal range of motion but once they hit
this point they did not stop they
straight away performed as many partial
repetitions as they could with the aim
of failing in the more dorsy Flex
position where the calves are at a
relative longer muscle length the
researchers plans for all subjects to
get to the exact point where despite
100% maximal effort subjects could not
even raise themselves up from the most
dorsy Flex position however some
subjects were unable to do this so the
researchers had to settle with these
subjects reaching what we may call valal
failure around the more dorsy Flex
position I think this is not a bad thing
as it makes the study more ecologically
valid for anyone that's ever done
lengthen suets on car phrases you'll
know it can get pretty
excruciating here were the training
variables used for both conditions when
subjects were able to perform more than
20 full range of motion repetitions on
the first set in either condition the
barber load was increased before and
after the study medial gastr nmia growth
was measured the lengthen supersets
ended up growing the muscle more than
the normal training in raw units the
growth was 0.62 mm more while in
relative terms the growth was
43.3% greater some of you may be
thinking 0.62 mm more that doesn't sound
like much but bear in mind that both
groups saw under a 2 mm average increase
in thickness of the medial gastrocnemius
multiple studies looking at Cal growth
also tend to find between a 1 to 2 mm
increase in gastrous thickness after 6
to 10 weeks of training and this isn't
too surprising muscle growth can be a
slow process so we're not going to see
astonishing increases in sze in a few
months considering this an extra 0.62 mm
increase in this time frame which again
was 43.3% more growth for the subjects
is probably not meaningless but it may
depend on your point of view
fascinatingly the authors reported that
around half of the subjects in the study
felt this extra growth was worth a
discomfort of lengthen
supersets before describing how this
paper fits into the rest of the
literature and what the potential
takeaways could be in the spirit of
scientific accuracy we need to keep some
things in mind firstly the subjects were
previously untrained it's difficult to
certainly know if this applies to
trained individuals secondly just car
phrases were trained so it's also
difficult to certainly know if this
extends to other exercises thirdly
volume load the product of sets times
reps times load was much greater with
the lengthen super sets which is of
course due to them performing extra
partial reps volume load doesn't always
have a strong relationship to
hypertrophy but it is difficult to tease
apart the contribution of volume or
lengthen supersets to the results lastly
some of you may be tempted to conclude
this study proves that training to
failure and Beyond is better for
building muscle in all scenarios I don't
think this is the best conclusion we've
seen previously at the house of hyper
that stopping one to two reps from
failure can produce similar hypertrophy
to training to failure and there other
techniques that go beyond failure such
as drop sets tend to produce similar
hypertrophy to normal sets considering
this I would merely interpret this study
as telling us with a specific exercise
car phrases which are most challenging
at shorter muscle lengths going Beyond
failure with a specific technique length
and supersets has the potential to cause
greater growth
this is the first ever study to explore
lengthen supersets and its results were
promising in a unique way I say it adds
to the growing evidence we've previously
seen at the house of Hy pery
demonstrating that training muscles at
longer lengths is great for growth when
we consider this overall research I
think it first and foremost suggests
selecting exercises that already place
and Will challenge our muscles at longer
lengths is a good idea last video we saw
that leaning back leg extensions which
lengthen the rectora more than normal
leg extensions grew this muscle better
we've also previously seen that cated
leg Coes which lengthened the hamstrings
more than Lang leg Coes produced greater
hypertrophy triceps overhead extensions
which lengthens the long head more than
triceps pushdowns grew this muscle more
we've also speculated that cable lateral
raises and cable reverse flies due to
them challenging the muscles well at
long longer muscle lengths may be up
there as the best exercises for the side
and rear delts respectively but as we
might not enjoy or even have access to
exercises that adequately challenge all
of our muscles at relatively longer
lengths lengthened supersets May
effectively help us build more muscle
with exercises that are typically most
challenging at shorter muscle lengths
once again just car phrases were used in
the newest study so we need to be
cautious in extending the results to
other exercises but lowering our
scientific Shield we may hypothesize
lengthened supersets may be effective
with rows pull Downs pull-ups leg calls
dumbbell lateral raises dumbbell bent
over raises and any other exercises you
may have that are most challenging in
shorten muscle positions so feel free to
experiment with this strategy in your
own training if you
desire there is another potential option
on the table which is just a purely
performed partial repetitions at long
lengths instead of any full range em
motion reps how effective could purely
length and partial training be this
paper from 2022 recruited untrained
women to train a cough exercise one
group used a full range of motion a
second group used purely a partial at
long muscle lengths and the third group
used purely partials at Short muscle
lengths medial and lateral gastrous
growth was best with the partials at
long lengths in fact medial gastrous
growth was 126. n% greater for the
length and partials compared to the full
range of motion recall in the newest
study medial gas nous growth was 43.3%
greater with length and supersets
considering this just length and
partials maybe more effective than
length and supersets but as the two
studies had differences direct
comparisons between purely length and
partial training and lengthen superset
is needed in future studies when
considering other research specifically
on length and partials two other studies
on leg extensions and a hip extension
machine further finds a partial range of
motion at long muscle lengths built more
muscle than a full range of motion but
we do need other data on other
demographics and exercises fortunately I
know there is at least one study coming
soon comparing full range of motion to
length and partials in trained
individuals we'll update you with a
results when it's published for now feel
free to try out the option you
prefer before wrapping up let us put our
scientific Shields back up and recognize
with the research on Long muscle length
training we are currently not talking
about hundreds of studies with multiple
replications across all training levels
rather we're talking about an emerging
and developing body of literature that
has been conducted on previously
untrained individuals with upcoming
research in trained individuals so don't
consider these things as 100% verified
by science for being Superior all the
time rather consider them as being
promising training tips that you may
wish to experiment with in your own
training if you have any hesitancy you
could explore them on just some of your
sets for example if you're performing
three sets on a row in a session the
first two sets may be with a normal full
range of motion while the final set may
involve a lengthened super set or just
purely lengthened partial
reps integrated partials is yet another
option this involves you alternating
back and forth between between a normal
full range emotional rep and a partial
rep at long muscle lengths finally if
you don't want to experiment with any of
these training strategies that's
absolutely okay you still grow with
exercises that challenge short muscle
lengths also methods that have staining
at longer muscle lengths can be more
fatiguing and depending on your
individual circumstances some people may
struggle to recover from training at
longer muscle lengths yet the subjects
in the current literature evidently were
able to handle and Thrive from training
at longer muscle lengths and we've
discussed previously at the house of
hypertrophy how your body can adapt and
reduce the fatigue you experience so my
current belief is in many cases we
shouldn't worry about the fatigue from
training at longer muscle links anyhow
as you gain training experience you will
hopefully gain a greater understanding
of your recovery capabilities it can be
tricky and very challenging to construct
your own muscle building program but the
alpha progression app which is
essentially your personal clever muscle
building assistant in the palm of your
hand can easily help you with hundreds
of thousands of downloads thousands of
reviews speak to its unmatched quality
other apps truly generate garbage
programs but this app intelligently gets
you closer to your dream physique
through generating an evidence-based
program 100% customizable to your needs
simply let it know all about you your
experience level the equipment you have
how often and how long you can train for
and if you want to focus or neglect
certain muscles this can all take less
than a minute and you can still make
further edits if you like the app has
extra impressive features during
workouts the app's algorithm carefully
suggests how you may Progressive
overload to help push you to the next
level aesthetic graphs automatically
display your long-term progress and
there is a huge exercise database of all
the best muscle building exercises try
out every single one of the premium
features to your heart's desire during a
free twoe trial through the link in the
comments and description if you like it
and choose to go beyond the link cuts
the price of a subscription by 20% I
truly believe the app is exceptional and
I hope you'll enjoy it
too thank you for making it to the end
of the video here's the summary points
feel free to check out the alpha
progression app or our recent deep dive
into building the triceps