what range of exercises can help elevate
your lat development to new heights if
you've ever plunged into the depth of
let training info on the internet
conflicting info exists the validity of
lap pulldowns and barbell Rose for Lati
poetry has been questioned it's also
been said freeway pullovers aren't even
a let exercise in this video we're going
to roll through the confusion and arrive
at a clearer landscape of what the
current scientific literature informs us
about maximizing lat hypertrophy welcome
to the house of hypertrophy
foreign
which cover a wide area across the back
have subdivisions a 2013 Canadian
analysis divided the lets into two
regions an upper thoracic region and a
lower lumbar pelvis coastal region an
Olden 1998 Australian analysis also
noted the upper thoracic region but
divided the lower region into
transitional refi iliac and Coastal
fibers finally a 2007 analysis also from
Australia considered the let's have six
regions predominantly based in the line
of actions of the muscle tissue the
findings of this same paper indicate
that the central nervous system can
somewhat activate certain regions more
than other regions depending on the
movement this tells us that different
exercises May grow certain regions of
the lat slightly more this may come as a
surprise to some but the notion that
certain parts of a muscle May grow more
than other parts isn't a myth the
scientific research verifies this
phenomenon called Regional hypertrophy
exists as just one example we've
previously seen at the house of
hypertrophy that both barbell squats and
hip thrusts predominantly grow the lower
regions of the gluteus maximus more than
the middle and upper regions
foreign
pull-ups and lap pull-downs are one type
of compound exercise many people have
some kind of vertical pull in their
training program vertical pools can be
performed with different grip widths and
this will likely influence let
hypertrophy in different ways firstly
vertical pulls involve elbow flexion so
we'll train the elbow flexors moreover
vertical pulls also tend to involve
scapular depression and or downward
rotation and since the majority of
people's LEDs attached to the scapula
the muscle May assist in these motions
nonetheless if you're performing
vertical pulls with a grip closer to
being narrower searches close grip
pull-ups and close grip lap pull-downs
you're predominantly performing shoulder
extension
underhand vertical pulls searches chin
ups and underhand lap pull Downs
predominantly tend to involve shoulder
extension too
alongside the lads the teres major teres
Miner and rear delse are the main
muscles that can pull on the upper and
bone to enforce shoulder extension which
of these muscles experience the best
stimulus a classic analysis from the USA
assists us it established throughout
shoulder extension that both the Terry's
major and let's possess the largest
leverage whereas the rear delts and
Terry's minor leverages were lower in
case you're unaware leverage refers to a
muscle's moment arm which is the
perpendicular distance between its line
of force and the center of the joint it
moves the longer the moment arm the
greater The Leverage and ability of the
muscle to move the joints multiple
papers suggest that leverage plays an
important part in how the central
nervous system decides what muscles to
recruit in a movement
closer grip vertical pools tend to be
most challenging near that contracted
position so the rear tails are going to
be involved relatively well but we're
still getting an excellent Terry's major
and lat stimulus are we potentially
biasing a particular region of the let's
with these closer grips this 2008
analysis from Australia established a
cross shoulder extension the upper
region had greater leverage compared to
the middle and lower regions
particularly at the lower shoulder
angles which is where vertical pools are
quite challenging indeed recall we
mentioned a 2007 Australian paper that
split the lets into six regions this
paper recorded that electrical activity
of the six regions during an isometric
shoulder extension contraction through
surface electromography held at around
zero degrees which is where vertical
pools are challenging semg is far from
perfect as I've discussed multiple times
previously but the usage of isometric
contractions in this case likely
enhances its reliability it was found
that upper layer regions tended to
display higher activity compared to the
other regions thus based on The Leverage
and active data it seems close to grip
vertical pools are going to be
particularly effective for targeting the
upper region this isn't to be mistaken
for saying the middle and lower regions
aren't targeted whatsoever they
certainly will be involved it's just
that we're probably biasing the upper
portion to some degree
what about differences between underhand
vertical pools and overhand or neutral
grip close to grip vertical pulls
well-controlled Research unsurprisingly
indicates that biceps are involved more
with an underhand grip does this mean
let activity is reduced I'm only aware
of this 2002 analysis out of the USA
that found comparable lat activity
between close grip pull-downs performed
with a neutral grip and underhand lap
pull-downs so in the absence of other
data this finding May preliminarily
indicate that underhand grip does not
reduce lat involvement
wider grip vertical pools such as wide
grip pull-ups and lap pull-downs likely
train the lats in a slightly different
way as you move from a closer to wider
grip you transition to performing
shoulder adduction
alongside the lands the teres major
middle and lower pack Terrace major and
rear delts are the main muscles that can
pull on the upper arm bone to enforce
shoulder adduction which of these
muscles experience the best stimulus on
the basis of this 2008 Australian
analysis we can see the rear delts
leverage rapidly drops off and
throughout the angles that are most
challenging in a wide grip vertical pull
the rear delts do not have much leverage
conversely all the other muscles the
teres major all three let regions and
the middle and lower pectorates major
have great leverage throughout the range
of motion focusing on the lat regions we
can see that the middle and lower
regions have slightly more leverage
compared to the upper region indeed the
previously mentioned 2007 Australian
paper that split the let into six
regions established during an isometric
shoulder adduction contraction the lower
regions tended to display greater
activity granted these isometric
contractions were held at 20 degrees of
abduction an angle not reached with
wider grip vertical pulls but based on
the leveraged data I'm assuming this
lower region buyers still exists
throughout the range of Motion attained
in wider grip vertical pulls therefore
it seems wider grip vertical pulls will
bias the middle and lower regions
we just saw this graph from the 2008
Australian paper indicating the middle
and lower let regions have slightly more
leverage in the upper region but some of
you may be drawn to another part of this
graph the fact that middle and lower
pecs have great leverage you may be
surprised at this after all those
couples are never recommended as a great
chess Builder so what's going on to
perform vertical pools as close to Pure
shoulder abduction what I describe as a
very wide grip is needed interestingly I
stumbled across this Reddit user
reporting chess soreness after using a
wide grip on pull-ups with their elbows
all the way out to the side most people
rarely do this instead a medium or
slightly wider grip is more common these
involve a mixture of shoulder adduction
and extension presumably lowering pector
s major contribution it's also plausible
medium grip width vertical pulls do well
to Target all regions of the lats fairly
well
so what does this mean for you in due
time we'll provide trading
recommendations but first let's
deconstruct the effectiveness of rows
for building the Nets
[Music]
horizontal pulls including barbell rows
dumbbell rows seated Rose and inverted
rows are another type of compound
exercise many people have at least one
kind of horizontal pull in their
training program as was the case with
vertical pools the grip width is a
notable Factor with a grip closer to
narrower searches done with close grip
barbell rows seated Rose and inverted
rows shoulder extension occurs
shoulder extension also occurs with
one-sided rowing exercises that keep the
elbow to the side of the body horizontal
pulls tend to be most challenging near
that contracted position and recall the
upper lats possess more leverage and
display greater activity around here
therefore similar to closer grip
vertical pools close the grip horizontal
pulls made bias the upper left region
yet there are at least three
distinctions between closer grip
horizontal and vertical pulls the
overall range of motion the lat length
obtained and the degree of shoulder
hyperextension and scapular retraction
could any of them influence lead
hypertrophy starting with range of
motion close-up grip vertical pulls move
the shoulder joint from around 170 to 0
degrees
horizontal pulls move the shoulder joint
from approximately 75 to 0 degrees
perhaps even entering negative degrees
that is shoulder hyperextension
depending on the execution your default
assumption might be the greater range of
motion with close secret vertical pulls
means they're more effective for
building Nets but I would argue this
probably isn't true in multiple prior
videos I've referenced emerging research
suggesting larger ranges of motions are
not necessarily better this study found
partial leg extensions at a lengthened
muscle position build the quads overall
better than a full range of motion
another paper found partial calf presses
at the length and position grew the
gastrocnemius more than using a full
range of motion finally the results of a
study soon to be published indicate
length and partial hip extensions
produced overall more hypertrophy versus
a full range of motion it's unclear how
far this logic extends so for now I'm
not confident in saying everyone must
perform vertical and horizontal pulls
with a lengthened partial range of
motion at the very least this data just
demonstrates larger ranges of motions
aren't always better what about the the
fact vertical pools attain a greater
stretch of the lens could this not mean
they're better than horizontal pulls for
building the lens although the lats are
lengthened more with closer grip
vertical pulls a key consideration is
the exercise is not challenging near the
most stretched position preliminary data
indicates if that more length and
position does not coincide with being
challenging it might not be more
effective for example this study from
Japan compared partial range of motion
Skull Crushers to full range of motion
Skull Crushers full range of motion
Skull Crushers involve lengthening the
triceps more but it does not coincide
with it being very challenging rather
Skull Crushers are most challenging when
the forearm is parallel to the floor
the researchers found those partial
Skull Crushers grew the triceps more and
more recent steady compared incline
curls to preacher curls incline curls
attain a great stretch of the biceps but
are more challenging at the mid to
contracted position the results indicate
preacher curls through the elbow flexes
more
finally what about the fact horizontal
pulls can involve bringing the arm
behind the body upper extension and
notable scapular attraction can occur
positioning your arm behind you and
retracting your scapular highly involves
the upper back muscle area but I'm
skeptical this negatively interferes
with the lat stimulus across the rest of
the range of motion muscle activity
isn't always mutually exclusive
accordingly despite the distinctions I
think closer grip vertical and
horizontal pulls May comparably develop
alerts
As you move to performing wider grip
horizontal pulls such as wide grip
barbell rows seated rows and inverted
rows you transition to performing
shoulder horizontal extension
one-sided Rose performed with the elbows
fled away from the body also involve
shoulder horizontal extension are these
more effective for developing the lats
based off the 1997 Australian analysis
we can see throughout shoulder
horizontal extension the rear delts
infraspinatus and supraspinatus possess
the best leverage while the lats have a
lot lower leverage as a result we can
confidently say that if the goal is to
maximize lat engagement with horizontal
pulls close to grips maintaining the
elbow to the body that necessitates
shoulder extension best accomplish this
thus far we've discussed the potential
effects of vertical and horizontal pulls
for developing the lens but we've yet to
touch on the influence of modality that
is does using a barbell dumbbell machine
or bodyweight exercise matter for
instance although we know wider grip
pull-ups and wider grip lap pull-downs
predominantly involve shoulder adduction
could one not be better or so although
we know barbell machine dumbbell and
body weight rows can involve shoulder
extension are any better most likely not
modality largely has little influence on
hypertrophy outcomes this recent study
involved comparing a free weight to
machine program
a poetry of the measured muscles was
comparable between both a finding
supported by other papers another paper
indicates push-ups produce comparable
chest and triceps gains to barbell bench
presses that's not to say there is no
difference whatsoever between the
modalities finer differences exist
pull-ups May Engage The forearms
somewhat more than lap pull downs one
arm rowing exercises involve a greater
rotational component compared to on
variants but in the precise context of
developing the lats with all the
aforementioned exercises I can't see any
strong reason to believe certain
modalities are superior except for one
that is some have suggested since
barbell rows involve loading the lower
back this means it is inferior for the
Lance
[Music]
this 2009 analysis from Canada found LA
activity was greater with inverted roads
compared to barbell rows while lower
spinal erector activity was greater with
Barbara Rose
another 2005 analysis from Japan found a
lot activity was slightly greater with
seated rows compared to barbell Rose
while trap activity was greater with
Barbara Rose truthfully I'm unsure what
to make of these findings you may
suggest Barber Rose involved too much of
a demand to stabilize the Torso creating
higher activity in the lower spinal area
and perhaps traps to the extent that
involvement is reduced but a
Counterpoint might be the findings are
attributable to the multiple limitations
of semg and that although there's a
demand to stabilize the Torso with
Barbara Rose It ultimately should be
limited by shoulder extension strength
and thus we should expect lat
involvement to be similar between
barbell rows and other rows the only way
to solve this is if we had research
directly comparing let hypertrophy
between Barber Rose and other rows since
this currently does not exist I'm just
going to say it's fine to train with
Barbara Rose if you desire other factors
May influence your decision of course
perhaps you're trading plenty of other
exercises that train the spinal Erectors
and you don't want any further stimulus
from Rose thus machine or bodyweight
rowing variations are going to be a
better option
[Music]
so we know shoulder extension-based
compound exercises closer grip vertical
or horizontal pulls that may bias the
upper leg region can be complementary to
shoulder adduction compound movements
that is wider grip vertical pools that
bias the middle to lower regions if you
have at least one shoulder extension
based compound exercise and one shoulder
adduction exercise I think there's an
extremely high probability you'll see
excellent lat hypertrophy over the long
term I think it's also possible that
only training medium grip vertical pulls
since they might involve targeting all
that regions relatively well will do an
excellent job at developing the latch in
the long term it's not impossible to
perform a program with a mixture of
these either
but do you need an exercise that
isolates the lats to ensure maximal
development unfortunately there isn't
any directly related research although I
will say there's this fascinating study
finding with a barbell bench press not
everyone experienced the same relative
recruitment of the chest triceps and
shoulders what I mean is some may see
the highest activity in the chest while
Others May see the highest activity in
the shoulders if we extrapolate this
data it's possible someone experiences
relatively lower stimulation of the lats
from the exact same compound exercise
compared to someone else
here's my recommendation if you're not
overly concerned about getting every
ounce of last muscle mass from the lens
isolated lat exercises may not be
essential but if after a few months or
even years of training your desired
vertical and or horizontal pulls you're
not satisfied with your lat development
then it may be time to add in isolated
exercises if you're someone who wants to
do everything in your power to squeeze
out maximum hypertrophy then including
isolated lat training may be worthwhile
of course there's nothing absolute about
what I just said there are other
scenarios in which you'd want to have
isolated lat training for example if for
whatever reason you don't want to
perform vertical and or horizontal pulls
or you're performing them in a way sub
optimally for the lats such as only
performing wider grip horizontal pulls
which we know are likely not great for
the less than having isolated lat
training can be worthwhile another case
is maybe you're someone who still isn't
concerned with truly maximizing light
hypertrophy but perhaps you just like
some exercise variety and therefore
desire to include isolated lat training
but what are the most favorable isolated
lat exercises
foreign
ERS are an isolation exercise that can
train the lats and they can be performed
with free weights cables or even
machines recall earlier I stated that
modality likely does not matter for
light hypertrophy with horizontal and
vertical pulls however pullovers are a
rarer case there are actually some
differences between the three-way cable
and machine variations that may be
important allow me to present the
findings of two studies at first you may
be confused as to why I'm detailing them
but it will make sense soon both papers
had subjects before maximal isometric
shoulder extension contractions at
different shoulder elevation angles both
of them indicate that let's display
their highest activity at lower shoulder
elevation angles and incrementally
display lower activity at higher
shoulder elevation angles in this event
the usage of isometric contractions
likely enhances its reliability these
findings do make sense as you elevate
your arm and get closer to the overhead
position the lats are going to have
progressively lower leverage here's the
important Point free weight pullovers
are most challenging with arms overhead
the point where the lats have their
lowest activity as a result it's been
speculated freeway pullovers are an
ineffective lat exercise in fact at
these higher shoulder elevation angles
the middle and lower PEC regions likely
have decent leverage indeed a few semg
studies report the pectoralis major
middle and low regions experience
relatively greater activity compared to
the leads during freeway pullovers so
does this research conclusively mean
freeway pullovers aren't a great lat
exercise According to some on the
internet their answer is a resounding
yes but I am less certain because there
are other aspects of the scientific
literature we shouldn't ignore the
layers are stretched well in the
overhead position the rebuttal to this
is so what if the lats are stretched the
fact is not going to be activated much
renders this meaningless however it's
worth understanding its leverage and
activity are not going to be zero it's
just limited but limited activity plus
stretch might still produce a good
stimulus four-let hypertrophy research
on the back squat and glute Max depicts
this bad exports are of course most
challenging at the lower portion and at
these deeper angles of hip flexion the
gluteus maximus is stretched well but it
has much lower leverage ability to
produce force and displays lower
activity as measured through semg
despite this a paper out of Japan
established deeper scores through the
gluteus maximus more effectively than 90
degree knee flexion squats another
recent paper found back squats mostly to
parallel produce similar upper middle
and lower glute Max hypertrophy to hip
thrusts thus stretch plus limited
leverage and activity may still be a
fine stimulus for hypertrophy may be
suggesting crew weight pullovers may
still be effective for the let's at the
end of the day if it's an exercise that
interests you feel free to try it out
from a regional perspective the lower
lats are probably going to have a bit
more leverage versus the other regions
at the overhead position so pullovers
might slightly bias this region
cable pullovers involve a great stretch
of the lat since they attain an overhead
position comparable to freeway pullovers
yet compared to freeway pullovers cables
involve a greater active range of motion
the arms will go through lower elevation
angles which we know is where the lats
have greater activity thus actual
electrical activity from the lats will
likely be greater in the cable variation
indeed there was this 2022 semg analysis
from Spain comparing barbell pullovers
to Cable pull-downs LED activity was
greater with a cable movement the cable
pull down isn't identical to a cable
pullover but the shoulder motion and
resistance profile are similar enough
from a regional perspective since cable
pullovers involve getting the arms near
the side the upper region will certainly
be involved well but since the movement
is most challenging at that mid position
the middle to lower lat regions might be
potentially biased for all these reasons
we make speculate cable pullovers to be
a bit better than freeway pullovers but
understand this is hypothetical you
could say since freeway pullovers are
most challenging at that very length and
position while cable pullovers are most
challenging in the mid position freeway
pullovers have the edge yet I'm unsure
if this factor is enough to make it
undeniably better than cable pullovers
machine pullovers assuming the machine
sufficiently provides High Resistance
throughout the range of motion are
probably more favorable compared to
freeway or cable pullovers the high
tension throughout the range of motion
means that the length and position is
challenging and we have a potential
slight lower lat region bias at this
position like freeway pullovers but the
fact we also have high tension at lower
angles where the lats display greater
electrical activity and the portions
where the upper region possesses greater
leverage means we get these benefits too
so if you wish to have a pullover in
your program to best train the lens go
with the machine pullovers of course
this isn't an absolute recommendation
your gym may not have this machine if
yours does but the machine feels off
then go with either the free weight or
cable variant
[Music]
there is one more lat to exercise worth
dissecting high rows where you roll with
your arms starting at a slanted angle so
not quite fully overhead this is a
compound exercise as shoulder and elbow
motion occurs but it is a movement that
can effectively Target the latch
nonetheless depending on the equipment
and setup you can train one arm at a
time and bring your arm across your body
to some degree doing so will result in
you attaining a great stretch of the
lats since the let's wrap around the rib
cage if you have a machine that provides
a solid challenge at the more lengthened
position perhaps one with a more even
resistance profile this will likely be
excellent you could make the case these
high rows are slightly better than
machine pullovers we know machine
pullovers achieve a great stretch of the
leads but this is at the overhead
position where the let's display their
lowest leverage and thus activity
conversely High Rolls involve
comparatively lower arm elevation so the
lats are slightly better activated in
this position but we still have a great
latch stretch thanks to bringing the arm
slightly across now whether this
difference is enough to meaningfully
impact let hypertrophy in the long term
it's currently unknown ultimately if you
have access to both feel free to go with
your preference it's not impossible for
you to incorporate both of them into
your program either
some may be curious about the technique
and execution of the aforementioned
exercises and all about precise details
about programming for muscle hypertrophy
I'm glad to see our high quality partner
the alpha progression app can help you
containing a massive exercise database
with more than 550 exercises video and
text instructions come with each there's
an awesome custom workout generator that
can tailor a program to your needs enter
the equipment you have how often and
long you want to train for and if you
want to focus or neglect certain muscles
there are over a quadrillion input
combinations on which your plan is based
and the training philosophy is derived
from scientific literature to top it all
off Graphics unveil your long-term
progression such as your strength
progression workout consistency set
numbers performed and circumference of
body parts if you desire the link in the
comments and description lets you try
out all these Premium app features for
free for 14 days if you like it and
choose to go beyond the link also gives
you 20 off a subscription I sincerely
believe the app is not things short of
exceptional
[Music]
both vertical and horizontal pose can be
highly effective for targeting the lens
except for wider grip horizontal pulls
which better Target the rear delts
infraspinatus and supraspinatus
nonetheless closer grip vertical and
horizontal pulls will likely be highly
effective for targeting the upper leg
regions wider grip vertical pools will
likely be highly effective for targeting
the lower leg regions medium grip
vertical pools potentially involve
targeting all regions fairly well if
you're trading some of these compound
exercises there's a high probability
you'll see tremendous lat development
over the long term there are a variety
of cases where you may wish to add in
isolated lat training pullovers are a
great isolation movement that
effectively targets the leads this is
how I would rank the different
modalities
high rows performed with the arms
slightly across the body to attain a
great latch stretch although actually a
compound exercise nonetheless
effectively targets the lats so is
another option on the table remember to
feel free to check out the alpha
progression app and all feel free to
check out our guides to developing the
side and rear down