your pecs have maybe three different
angles of attack there's the sternal
pectoral which is the main part of your
picture lower pecs and mid and most of
your upper actually then there are the
clavicular pecs which is the upper pecs
so maybe you do some pressing movements
that go normal for one maybe you do some
incline pressing for the other and then
lastly there may be some small benefit
on occasion to including a fly that hits
the fibers maybe closer in especially if
you cross your hands or pause at the top
at the end which if you don't do a bench
you don't really get all that full
contraction so potentially you have two
kinds of compound pushing incline and
horizontal or two cons of fly movements
and then just one kind of fly on top of
that let's say Monday you're doing chest
and I see you're doing a flat pressing
movement
incline pressing movement and a fly
movement in any angle I would say
anything more than that it's almost by
definition Overkill