rank one and I do mean rank one in the
muscle you should be focusing on
training the most if you want to look
jacked in cloes or without by the way
this is an inclose and without clo list
same list shoulders with and without
clothing shoulders set up your Vaper and
a lot of the visual subconscious ways in
which people judge how big you are it's
a two- Factor model one is just how
broad your shoulders are that's probably
the first thing people subconsciously
notice about you if you see someone that
shoulders are really narrow but they
have like really big arms or something
you could be like oh that guy wow that
guy's got really big arm but you're not
going to be like that guy's big what is
a situation in which you see someone
with four foot wide shoulders
and you're like man if you see someone
with hugely wide shoulders big ass delts
the first thing you're to think of is
holy and you could look at the rest
of the physique be like well actually
they're not as jacked as they look they
just have a wide frame but it hits you
that's Factor one factor two is how does
it relate to the waist because if your
waist is any size that it is Big medium
small however big you get your shoulders
will make your waist look smaller and
thus it sets up the