so the hamstrings are easily one of the
most underrated muscle groups and will
make a big impact when it comes to
giving your lower body that stronger
more powerful look not to mention
literally making you physically stronger
and more powerful but unfortunately a
lot of lifters end up under training
these muscles either by flat out
neglecting them in their workouts or by
selecting the wrong exercise and
executing them with poor technique so in
today's video we'll be going over five
mistakes to avoid when performing leg
curls which should be a staple movement
in any well-rounded hamstring plan to
directly Target that knee flexion
component which is one of their primary
functions along with hip extension now
most of you watching us are hopefully
already aware of the basics like
avoiding excessive body momentum and not
aggressively swinging your torso all
over the place on each rep controlling
the negative on the way down and using a
reasonable range of motion as opposed to
just loading up a ton of weight and
pumping out a bunch of sad little half
reps so what we're going to cover today
are a few slightly more subtle mistakes
you might not even realize you're making
but that will definitely help to improve
the effectiveness of the exercise so
that you can achieve those thick chunky
voluminous hamstrings you're after in
the most efficient way all right mistake
number one is going to be exploding out
of the very bottom position so lowering
down until your knees are fully
straightened and then launching the pad
up as hard and fast as you possibly can
now the reason why this isn't ideal for
the hamstrings is because it's actually
the calves that are doing the majority
of the work in the lowest portion of the
range the gastrocnemius not only
performs plantar flexion like with a
calf raise but it's also a pretty
powerful knee flexor as well and it's
going to be in the strongest position to
move the weight during the first 15
degrees or so of a leg curl so if your
knees are fully strained at the bottom
and then you aggressively Drive the
weight upward with full force what
you'll be doing is initiating the
movement with your calves and then
allowing some of that momentum to carry
the pad through the upper portion of the
range so what you can do instead if you
really want to hone in on the hamstrings
as much as possible is either just cut
out that first 15 degrees or so at the
bottom and start with your knees
slightly bent or you can fully
straighten your knees but start the
movement under more strict control with
a slightly slower Cadence and then once
you get to that roughly 15 degree point
then you can really apply that full
force and curl the weight up more
explosively using your hamstrings
mistake number two has to do with
improper bracing and that could look
something like this or like this or
maybe like this it's important to
remember that as you're curling the pad
up the weight is also going to be
pulling your body backward at the same
time and so you need to have a counter
force in place otherwise you're going to
be leaking out strength and your
hamstrings won't be able to generate
maximum Force against the resistance
this is why it's really important that
you firmly hold on to the handles of the
machine at all times and actively engage
your core to create that force in the
other direction and to keep your pelvis
pinned down Against the Machine if your
torso is moving forward and backward on
each rep or your pelvis is excessively
rising and lowering then the overall
output from your hamstrings is going to
be reduced to put it simply if it looks
like you're having intercourse with the
machine during your set you're probably
doing it wrong mistake number three a
pretty simple one but still a fairly
common mistake and that's not having the
knees directly matched up with the axis
of rotation on the machine if your knees
are too far forward or backward then the
path of resistance won't be properly
lined up with the curling path of the
hamstrings and you're gonna get all
kinds of wonkiness in terms of uneven
loading in different positions and
possibly more strain on your knees or
low back so just make make sure that
your knee joints are in line with that
Pivot Point right from the get-go if
you're finding these tips helpful don't
forget to hit the like button and
subscribe to the channel to stay up to
date on future videos and mistake number
four is performing your leg curls with
your ankles plantar flexed or in other
words with your toes pointed now the
reason why some people will do this or
why you might have seen it being taught
in other hamstring training videos is
because by flexing the calves you put
them into a shorter and weaker position
and the idea is that that's going to
result in Greater tension on the
hamstrings however because the Cavs play
an important stabilizing role at the
knee during a leg curl you don't want to
remove them from the exercise because
then the hamstrings have to take over
for that stabilizing function as well
and the amount of force they can
generate through pure knee flexion is
going to be reduced now you can still
stimulate your hamstrings effectively
with your toes pointed okay this doesn't
mean that it doesn't work but to put the
hamstrings in the strongest position to
move the weight keep your ankles either
neutral or slightly dorsiflexed alright
and the last point on the list I'm not
going to call this a mistake necessarily
but it could be a mistake depending on
how your overall program is structured
and that's not understanding the
difference between a lying leg curl
versus a seated leg control in terms of
how they train the hamstring keep in
mind that the hamstrings not only
perform knee flexion but they also do
hip extension as well meaning that as
the hips Flex the hamstrings are going
to lengthen and as the hips extend
they're going to shorten so if you're
performing a leg curl with your hips in
an extended position like with a lying
leg curl or a standing leg curl as well
then you're going to be training them in
a shortened position whereas if you
perform a leg curl with your hips in a
flex position like with a seated lead
curl you'll be treating them at a longer
length and emphasizing the stretch
position and since the hamstrings can
produce the greatest amount of force at
a longer muscle length the seated
variation would probably be the best
option overall if we're talking about a
direct head-to-head comparison now if
you're already following a well-rounded
hamstring training approach and you've
already got some kind of hip hinge
movement in your program like a Romanian
deadlift that's going to emphasize the
length and position already and so this
might not matter much if at all in the
overall scheme and pairing that up with
a lying or even a standing leg curl
would probably be just fine but all in
all what I'd say is that number one if
you do have access to a good seated leg
curl machine then ideally try to include
that at least somewhere in your training
program as a whole rather than just
doing lying or standing leg curls
exclusively and number two if for
whatever reason you're not doing a
hamstring focused hip hinge in your
program then I'd recommend prioritizing
the seated variation if you can and all
the tips that we've covered in this
video in terms of proper bracing within
the machine keeping your toes neutral or
dorsiflex knees lined up with the pivot
point of the machine all that applies to
the seated leg curl as well if you want
some more help getting your overall
fitness program onto the right track
whether your goal is to gain muscle lose
fat or do a combination of both make
sure to visit shawnell.com custom just
fill out the short form on that page and
I'll send you back a free step-by-step
training program based on your current
condition and goals along with an easy
to follow nutrition plan as well the
link for that is in the description box
when it comes to effective
supplementation you can also visit
realscienceathletics.com to check out my
own line of research-backed clinically
dosed formulas I personally created from
scratch to maximize your results here
are two more videos I'd recommend
watching now don't forget to subscribe
to the channel to stay up to date thanks
for watching guys and I'll talk to you
again soon