hey folks dr. Mike Gesell here for
Renaissance period ization talking to
you about a cool concept today this is a
lecture I've given it a couple of
conferences so far and seem to have done
okay and I think it's super important
subject so I wanted to sort of bring it
to the YouTube audience or precisely one
and a half of you might eventually see
it it is arguing to convince and
subtitle is learning not fighting so
what the heck are we going to be talking
about again through the table of
contents in just a sec so let you know
what you're signing up for here but
basically you know we're in a place
especially with social media today in
modern society where we get to interact
with other people to a considerable
extent right maybe before advent of
social media you would see things on
television you would read websites there
wasn't a lot of interaction and you know
you kind of received opinions about the
world maybe about fitness maybe about
you know any other things through
articles or sort of formal write-ups or
news clips you might have sort of
discussed them with family and close
friends but maybe not as many
opportunities to discuss them with total
strangers or people who have radically
different views than you do on a subject
you know at the same time we're sort of
I wouldn't say bombarded with
information but there's tons of
information out there and social media
today has has led to a lot of
interconnectivity and it's really an
opportunity for all of us to exchange a
lot of information and sort of just pare
away the bad ideas or the worse ideas
and get exposed to the better ideas so
like almost an ideal sense over time the
average opinion of on any subject in
society could tend to improve if we were
speaking to each other learning from
each other in such a way as to lead more
often to the truth than not now that
being said this series our this this
video is called arguing to convince
because a lot of people don't see
like they're trying to convince anyone
in an argument they seem like they're
just um sort of releasing emotional
energy they have an opinion they're very
proud of it
anyone who disagrees with them is not
only wrong not only stupid but morally
suspect at best and just you know
totally morally bankrupt at worst and
maybe social media for such folks as an
opportunity to just really just just
maybe make fun of somebody or ridicule
their views and so on and so forth now
well that functions as a fine mode of
entertainment
it's by no means clear it accomplishes
anything whatsoever as far as actually
getting people to think of a idea more
correctly for example if you believe
that vaccination is an important thing
and it's sort of you know gets to you
that some people are anti vaccine you
can make fun of people who are anti
vaccine but usually making fun of people
doesn't work all that great they don't
tend to you know if you make fun of
someone sufficiently for a sufficient
duration or sufficient intensity it
doesn't increase their chances of being
like alpha you got me and guess I really
was an idiot right and then change their
opinion to yours it'll probably make
them more hardened against your opinion
and really sort of recede to their own
ground and get into their own echo
chamber so it turns out that if you want
to change the world for the better you
may possess a variety of opinions that
are pretty right on and maybe you have
something to learn yourself a way of
discussing things that involves learning
a lot yourself and maybe helping folks
that don't know as much about a subject
get closer to the truth it's a little
bit better than just ridiculing people
and listen I don't need to give you a
guide about how to ridicule people we
all already know how to do that we
learned that in a first grade
kindergarten something like that
so let's get into the contents here and
figure out how to talk to folks with
differing opinions and actually try to
get a little bit closer to the truth
first part of contents we're gonna talk
about this in just a second is the
nature of truth because before we talk
about how to get people to the truth we
have to figure out what that even means
we're gonna talk about exactly what your
missions in discussion should be and
probably what they shouldn't be if
you're actually trying to be effective
we're gonna talk about a huge hurdle for
a while of the major impediments to
critical thinking because if all of us
were critical thinking machines
and we were sort of perfect robots man
convincing would just just literally be
a matter of presenting the data
objectively and they would scan the data
and be like oh you're right I was wrong
but there are a lot of impediment that
in actual human beings that we're gonna
talk about and sort of ways to get
around them then we're gonna reduce you
to the sort of formal argumentation
process there are five parts of it all
the way from trying to understand where
they're coming from and where you're
coming from all the way to what's called
argument egress is how you actually
leave the argument because that does
matter for a variety of effects
including how how they might change
their mind later or not and we're gonna
dive super deep into the formal process
if you're watching this is kind of a
video sort of to get a little bit more
enlightened down the process of arguing
to convince and not not super serious
about going on Facebook and implementing
all these you might benefit by paying
attention to all the details of parts
one through four and I'll say this again
later you don't have to get everything
completely right a lot of this is about
the spirit of the discussion we're gonna
bring in just a couple of cool
strategies will make you way better off
than than before so let's get to it
slide number three the nature of truth
we got this ridiculously drawn Microsoft
PowerPoint yes I'm an artist thank you
so much little representation and what
we have on the left is a red X green Y
and a blue circle so X is somebody who
has a certain opinion perhaps yourself Y
represents someone who has another
opinion perhaps a person that you might
be disagreeing with something about and
having a discussion with them the blue
dot in the middle represents the actual
truth very rarely does anyone possess
with a high degree of accuracy and
precision the actual truth much more
often almost always somebody is a little
bit closer to the truth than somebody
else but nobody pretty much is exactly
at the truth outside of simple questions
like you know what's one plus one right
hopefully you're not getting too many of
those debates maybe with your
one-year-old or something like that so
basically we have to a lot of times what
people look at this and
see is they see okay IMAX I have the
truth and that person why over there as
far away as it gets from the truth my
job is to pull them kicking and
screaming towards the truth but it turns
out arguing to convince involves a
little bit different view of the world I
would say a more accurate one where x
and y neither one of them have the
perfect truth by exchanging ideas with
each other they can both get closer to
the truth together which is really
really cool now the person you're
arguing against might not have any plans
of getting together anywhere with you
they think you're evil and terrible and
you're completely wrong and they might
be wrong about all those things but if
you use proper strategies you may be
able to get them a bit closer to the
truth and at the same time never making
it about well now I'm more writing and
see you or wrong you might never have to
say that you might never even have to
hint at it because the goal isn't to
bring them to your side it's a lot
easier to think of the goal is let's
both get closer to the truth you can see
already it takes a lot of ego out of the
equation so if you see the nature of
truth in such a way that we're all
imperfect but trying to get better the
truth is somewhere out there anyone with
a differing opinion at the very worst
offers us a great way to really solidify
our own understanding and even if we
can't get why them to float closer to
the truth
we might flow closer to with ourselves
how many times have you had a discussion
where someone's I don't believe a word
you're saying and you googled a ton of
stuff you did a ton of online research
and after that you're like well they
didn't work cuz they told me to go fuck
myself that that was that was the end of
that discussion and so apparently I
didn't convince anyone of anything but I
know way more about the subject now than
I did and it turns out some of the stuff
I had assumed before wasn't even true
I'm better off now I'm closer to the
truth that's the worst case scenario
best case scenario is that you both get
closer to the truth and another good
case scenario and this is actually
better than even the first one is it
turns out you're the Y and they're the X
they've been closer to the truth the
whole time you just didn't know it
and after a really good amicable
discussion right a very good civil
discourse you end up both getting closer
to the truth and now you're closer than
you ever were I've been in tons of
discussions against experts in my
industry and experts just outside of it
where I was like nope it's like this and
then
like what about this this that and I'm
like holy shit I was kind of wrong about
this thank God they set me straight
because I don't have to be fucking wrong
anymore I can be more right than wrong
awesome right
getting closer to the truth like that
together is way better for everyone
involved or at least some people
involved and it hurts nobody on the
other hand just bickering and trying to
pull each other close to the truth which
when we think the truth is within each
person then we just end up going nowhere
and the truth remains elusive to all of
us so let's get into the next one your
mission in discussions couple things
that you have to do here when you start
a discussion to try to get closer to the
truth one of the first things you want
to do what are your big goals is to try
to understand where you are coming from
almost the quintessential early teenager
debate is when teenagers first get that
like feisty intellectual proclivity and
they start arguing with with people and
it's kind of hilarious
when you know arguing with a teenager or
maybe you remember this foreigner or a
teenager you know maybe so much know
what it is you stand for but you know
Mom and Dad or wrong writer you know
your teachers are wrong you know that
other person is wrong you might not even
know where you're coming from right you
get a ton of this stuff where people in
politics oftentimes they'll say well I
support this this policy in someone on
the other side goes why and they're like
oh cuz but deep down they're like oh
like why I'm just kind of assuming that
was true I don't know gee that sucks so
a big mission and discussions and you
can do this either before the discussion
starts or discussions are a great way to
do this is to really solidify your own
perspective to know where you're coming
from because you know you're coming from
then you can accurately assess where you
are where the likely truth will be and
go to it if you don't even know your own
opinion that well gee it's really hard
to form a good opinion if you don't even
know what's going on yet all right now
secondly and this is kind of predictable
you want to understand what the other
person is coming from so many arguments
are pointless because people are coming
from exactly the same place but are
stating
things in a completely different way
right let's take a example how much
regulation do you believe an economy
should have someone to people who
believe that the economy should be 90
percent unregulated and 10 percent
regulated one of the people could be
pointing out all the bad things about
regulation and one of the people could
be pointing out all the bad things about
not regulating but because they never
really assess okay well exactly what it
is are we talking about here
how much regulation are we talking about
here if they had actually talked about
it and try to figure out where the other
person is coming from if both of them
did that or at least one person they
could be like so you're mostly for an
unregulated market but some important
regulation where it belongs the other
person to be like uh-huh like what the
hell are we talking about here we just
been talking across ourselves so it's
super important to understand what the
other person is coming from because they
might be closer to the truth than you in
which case you get free knowledge and if
they're not closer to truth you at least
need to know where they're coming from
so you can sort of find out how to get
them to seat a little bit more of the
truth because if you don't know if you
don't know where you're shooting you can
point the gun anywhere you're even
chance of having anything another
mission
this is the big overarching mission you
want to see the world more accurately
fundamentally when you enter any
discussion about anything yeah our ego
tells us dammit I want to be right at
the end of this discussion my ideal
state is for me to lose zero points for
that person to lose their whole argument
to be embarrassed to cry at my feet yeah
okay or you could just play video games
on easy and accomplish that same sort of
feeling that's what I do in my spare
time when I'm at home alone with no
friends so wouldn't it be better
slightly if your goal was to just see
the world more accurately anytime you
enter a discussion you go okay I want to
see the world more accurately myself and
I want to make sure that this other
person doesn't know something I don't
but keeps me from seeing the world more
accurate so if this person presents the
kind of data and the kind of argument or
the kind of logic that makes me see it
makes me realize that
I viewed the world pretty inaccurately
compared to them what a gift what an
amazing thing imagine trying to talk
about vaccines to a person who did their
PhD in in toxicology or something like
that
or you know in immunology and all of a
sudden your honor you know a short
commuter flight together and 30 minutes
later you seem to think he's making a
point against vaccines but it was
actually making a point about how to
make sure they're you know executed
properly so and so forth so you think
you're talking to an anti-vaxxer in your
lip oh boy I'm gonna serve it to this
guy right I'm gonna win this one
and all of a sudden he just serves you
up you got the biggest favor you'll ever
get because you walk off that plane
however your ego feels about it you're
gonna know more and all of a sudden
you're seeing the world more accurately
so when someone on the pro-vaccine side
later in a facebook group says vaccines
have no downsides no flaws you're an
idiot if you're an anti-vaxxer you're
from the Dark Ages some of that might
have some truth to it but if the parts
might be just reaching a bit too far so
now that you know that uh you know the
immunologist set you straight you could
be like well you know here's let's admit
this stuff and all of a sudden you're
doing better because you know more
accurately right
fundamentally this is gonna sound a
little lame but work with me you really
want to sort of put your hand out
metaphorically right and together with
the other party with the other person
you're gonna find your weight a little
bit closer to the truth now depending on
a long discussion is depending on how
much expertise both expertise both of
you or neither of you have and you're
depending on the degree of civility so
on and so forth you may get just a
little bit closer to the truth or you
may get a lot closer to the truth but
any step is probably a step in the right
direction right that's what your job is
that's what your mission and discussions
probably should be if the discussions
are going to be worth your time and
gonna make things better for most people
now here's what your mission is not it's
not to belittle other people right like
I could tell you your mission is to
belittle people and arguments but then
the whole you know video wouldn't be
titled arguing to convince actually
trying to convince them because again
and we'll talk about this later
belittling people does not help you can
then it helps the complete opposite
helps inoculate them against any further
convincing especially by you right so if
you're gonna be believing people you
know that's cool in like a thirteen year
old first Anonymous forum kind of visit
you know first not inform visit kind of
way
that's so cool if you're like thirty six
years old and you're like I'm gonna tell
everyone they're wrong like dude you're
the man you know you're not getting paid
for this stuff
so if militant people is really up your
alley sweet
you know just buy one of those like
shooter video games with a headset and
talk shit to 12 year olds and in Korea
you know that that's a fun way to do it
but if you're talking about substance of
issues you might have a little bit more
to offer than just making fun of people
and this is really kind of met a funny
point you'll see like blogs about
technical economics where people are
belittling each other with like jargon
and graphs and you're just like wow this
is a delay mr. deist wait to talk shit
I've ever seen in my entire life
you guys are already talking about
technical like econometrics like why if
you're being this logical about
something would you just act like
children in this other facet like if
we're gonna act like children just just
start an exchanging just random swear
words and insults there's no reason to
get sort of nifty with the data to prove
a point that the other person's a moron
ready if you're gonna dive that deep
into data you might as well be looking
for the truth and not to belittle people
there's way easier ways of doing that
here's another very super related one
you don't discuss to impress third
parties now here's the deal how you have
a discussion may let other people third
parties that are reading the debate or
listening to it or what have you they
might let them perceive it in one way or
another it might sort of paint your
narrative in one direction or another
for example if you see someone with a
political opinion like let's say on a
news debate show a political opinion
that you agree with debating someone
with a political opinion to disagree
with the person you agree with is like a
fucking total dick just makes fun of the
person he's lazy bear or barely any
argument at all just just a bad show
right Interop it's a lot so on and so
forth and then the person they're
arguing against who is on the side you
don't even agree with civil is calm as
polite as trying to get to the truth
you're gonna turn the TV off after that
or click out the youtube link and you're
gonna be like fuck I really wish our guy
did a better job and all of a sudden
maybe if you're not super EXTREME on
that like political view if you're like
moderate to agreeing with it you might
look at that alternative view that was
presented super fairly and openly you
might be like you know what that guy
that did it just doesn't seem like a bad
guy maybe he's not all wrong and you
start googling stuff and all of a sudden
you're starting to convert to that view
a little bit more so how you conduct
yourself absolutely has an influence on
what other people see and whether or not
you convince a bunch of other people of
your perspectives but the thing I'm
refuting here is your mission is not to
like you know do one of these and really
belittle someone and really like slam
with data be like oh you want links
here's 80 PubMed links no one will ever
read it could impress third parties in
the sense of like oh my god like that
guy's so smart oh he just got served
right there was this one exchange I
remember reading where it was like
totally just like out of his depth like
I mean I want to call him a conservative
guy it was like it was just like more or
less like a lake or like a redneck and
he was posting on Facebook his about
just spelling errors and he would say
like a lot of dumb shit predictably and
there was a guy that was like an
enlightened super progressive guy
probably with a lot of great ideas but
he would like serve this guy up he's
like technically you're wrong like
actually right and he would like serve
him up with all these like copy would he
like critique is grammar and it was
hilarious to third parties let me ask
you this how many people who didn't
agree with that guy now agree with him
nobody in fact this guy's a fucking dick
he's making fun of a guy that's like you
know two standard deviations of IQ away
from him on real and yeah did he
convince that guy that he was already me
too never convinced him of anything and
here's the real deal like if you happen
to think of yourself as enlightened as
more intellectual you think there's a
lot of dumb people around hey you might
not be wrong dumb people vote just like
everybody else you have two choices you
could either convince them over the
policies that you think are a good idea
or you can tell them they're fucking
stupid and make fun of them for other
people to laugh at may go right the fuck
to the polls and vote for the same
candidate you hate
big deal right everybody gets a boat so
belittling other people fun pricey at
the polling place impressing third
parties same thing right and also like
you know just to to make sure we're sort
of covering all the bases here your job
you know yeah woke that's not fucking
thing it's a stupid meme on you know
you're not the single purveyor of truth
no matter how much you think you are so
the you know what I have in my notes
here is like you know like my jobs to
wake people up to the truth man
you know like ya know you might not know
the truth like you know if you ever talk
to like some like super far gone hippie
in there like man corporations man media
like I know how it all works like you
don't know fucking shit matter of fact
if you're high enough you don't know
anything right you're usually that high
like people explain stuff to you and
they're like I've got the revealed
wisdom like be easy right if you start
to feel like that you know if you're
super Pro science Pro logic sometimes
you can feel like you're like ah I'm the
professor or schools in session be
respectful because other people can
teach you stuff you didn't know that you
were gonna learn so super open mind your
jobs not to shit on people if you want
to shit on people like I said get one of
them headsets I was gonna say shoot a
bunch of players that 13-year old Korean
kids operate you ain't never gonna beat
those people because the number one
ranked video gamers in the world so lose
to them and then talk shit you want to
convince we got other strategies so on
to the next let's say that we're super
alright dr. Mike we're trying to
convince people they're gonna be fuckin
boring and it's gonna take a long time
but fine Pro science pro enlightenment
what are we gonna run into
well I can't we just because a lot of
people who are Pro truth and Pro reason
which is sweet just kind of like to lay
it out for people so someone's like you
know post something on their wall like
you know I'm not super convinced that
vaccines are a good idea and you just
post like 18 PubMed links and you're
like reason one reason - reason 3 reason
for how come that doesn't work right
there's a couple of reasons but you know
if we were again pure like I said
earlier few pure logical machines then
we could just be like oh well yeah
clearly that you know was wrong and
clearly the data seems to be indicative
of that
maybe I should just change my views well
it doesn't happen like that for at least
five major impediments to critical
thinking five things at least there's
tons more other ones that you know
prevent this nice easy hands clasp walk
to the truth like and leaves falling
around the Sun just right you know
you're everyone's going to the truth and
enlightened it's not gonna be that easy
of a road in most cases for five reasons
left get through all right
so reason number one not surprisingly is
ego it's as simple as this I'm right
because the idea I have is mine because
it's mine it's better than yours that's
as easy as ego is to explain so as soon
as you start to try to convince someone
of anything that's not exactly their
opinion my God's name you try to
convince someone of exactly their
opinion as another question anything
different from their opinion a lot of
people get this feeling I was gonna say
thinking that's not even true it's not
fought with a feeling that because it's
not my opinion that you're telling me
fuck you
this is really about that simple with
ego right so it's a real uphill battle
trying to convince folks that you know
of anything because a lot of times the
first impediment you reach is your very
attempt trying to convince them insults
them because you're telling them they're
not completely right and insults them
again because the implication is that
you know more than they do and it's lost
them again because who the fuck are you
to even bring that shit to them like who
are you to say anything so ego is a real
nasty one don't worry we'll have ways to
try to get around it it's a tough road
it's a tough road but it's probably not
as tough of a road as the second reason
I have down here ideology right
ideology is an unbelievable impediment
of seeing the truth you know some
ideologies get things a little better
than others but some don't right back in
especially about 10 years ago a lot of
folks in the fitness industry which is
my industry that I occupy
I head up pretty much an ideology of
healthy eating and that it was a pretty
rigid ideology that meant that any fast
food any chips or snacks or preserved
foods soda fuck forget about it it not
only made you just a totally reckless
with your health if you ate it it sort
of indicated a lack of education a sort
of moral bankruptcy at the very bottom
of him so it was you know it's real
tough to try to give someone the science
of nutrition and say you know nutrition
research has shown that if most of your
foods are healthy you know like whole
grains fruits veggies lean meats healthy
fats the good stuff if most of your food
is healthy but here's the reality we
started to really flush out about ten
years ago that if you have like maybe
25% 20% of your diet is like pure junk
food but you're it's all within your
daily calories and macro requirements
that you're pretty much as healthy as
anyone who eats perfectly healthy right
that's really the truth but the first
few folks to really start to try to
spread that message ran into this
ideology where people are like oh let me
get this straight you're saying that I
can have cookies and they won't destroy
my body like yes that's correct if you
balance your calories and get most of
your food from healthy sources like
that's bullshit and you're like okay can
you explain to me why that's bullshit
and they're just there is no explanation
because the data doesn't support it so
they start reasoning all these listing
all these pseudo reasons trying to pry
them away from that fucking damn near
impossible because they know for a fact
that junk food is poison at any dose and
you're not gonna tell them differently
because they've swallowed the pill
completely whole ideology is a gnarly
gnarly thing if you ever need a
refresher course on how powerful
ideology is look at the state of
politics in the modern world or really
at any point in the world ever
you got conservatives you got
progressives they fucking hate each
other sometimes they're not sure why but
they know the other side is the enemy so
they have two different ideologies so
you mix ego in there and ideology and
all of a sudden how many times have you
seen like a super conservative and a
super progressive have a discussion or
actually convince each other of anything
oh my god it's the toughest thing in the
world when you go out and you try to
move closer to the truth you're gonna
hit the ideology speed bumps they're
really big speed bumps we're gonna find
ways to work around them it's a really
really tough one next point next big
roadblock to convincing someone of
something and alarm working towards the
truth a little bit better deep personal
experience that they have this can be
super tough especially in certain
situations a lot of times deep personal
experience doesn't so much apply to
political debates because you can say
well you know your experience is what it
is there's like a trillion other people
in the world and they might have
different experiences okay fine
especially in like something like
fitness and nutrition someone can tell
you you can say to someone you know
research shows that eating white rice is
pretty much just as healthy in the grand
scheme as eating brown rice and
someone's gonna say you know what I used
to eat white rice and I had GI issues my
performance stunk I was always fat and
sick in like out of energy I switched to
brown rice and I straight-up lost weight
I felt better
my stomach settled you can't tell me
that it wasn't the brown rice and it
wasn't the white rice doing the bad you
can't tell me they're the same for
health because my I went through this I
lived it now they're coming from a real
deep place and I you gotta cut them that
slack and later we'll show how to do
that pretty well but look was that the
only difference that occurred in their
diet it's probably not a lot of people
who eat like white rice all the time
especially in like modern Western
countries tend to do that when they eat
a shitload of Chinese food from takeout
places not exactly the healthiest food
and they also when they do the takeout
places they just generally live their
life in such a way as to eat a lot of
old junk food so sometimes when people
switch it what kind of people really eat
brown rice is like a rule healthy like
sort of like health nut people right so
you know when they switch to brown rice
they might have stopped going out to
Chinese places altogether or just
started getting healthier options they
probably stopped eating McDonald's so
often and so on and so forth
clean up the rest of their diet they
might have even picked up a workout
routine now what they remember was the
white rice went away and the brown rice
replaced it and all of a sudden they're
off to a real good start but it might be
nothing to do with that the thing is you
can tell them all that it's not gonna
fall on deaf ears but it's gonna fall on
pretty mute ears because deep personal
experience really really paints the
stuff really really intensely so you're
gonna run into them number four this
relates to ego in a certain way but it
also relates to finances heavy prior or
current investment in an idea all right
in in my industry of so fitness and
nutrition health and training I am known
as one of the volume people which
basically means that you know I think
that how much training you do has a
really big effect on how how good of
shape you get in and like a lot of other
stuff maybe has a smaller effect like
exactly the kind of bicep curl you do is
it with a machine is it with free
weights is it with dumbbells barbells
might have like a little effect and I
think that how many reps and sets you do
has a big effect just to point that out
there look if you were gonna try to talk
me a super rational logical me right
into the idea that volume wasn't nearly
as important as I had thought it was
this whole time that was gonna be a
tough road right cuz I got books written
about volume I got articles I've
designed digital products for for you
know the business that I co-own and
they're based on the volume ideas right
so if you were really gonna say like
look volume really just isn't this big
of a deal boy oh boy do I have heavy
prior investment and current investment
that idea now it's not insurmountable
but it's gonna be a tough now ideally I
would like to think myself is very
objective so if you had good data I'd be
like patent looks like we had volume all
wrong right
I would like to no longer be wrong about
that so I could stop selling crappy
digital products to people that don't
work but um you know it with with most
folks myself included there's gonna be
some degree of resistance right because
like you know imagine walking up to a
you know the chairman of GNC a General
Nutrition Center supplement shop and
being like here's all the data the
supplements don't work
gonna be like really you want me to just
fire myself for my own job but you know
that might be an idea you have it's
tough
real tough which is a lot of times why
you see a lot of debates on TV in a very
settings between like industry leaders
or you know there's like the nichole
industry executive chairman of the coal
industry board versus a chairman of the
you know a solar panel board or they're
just battling each other on news media
like wow listen that like really is
either one of them gonna give that up
that easily and be like you know what
right Frank you're right uh you know
solar panel Frank you got me coal just
bad for everyone you know you're not
gonna hear that sort of thing too often
so it's definitely an impediment and
last but not least for this shortlist
are what's called the formal logical
fallacies there are huge impediments to
critical thinking probably some of the
most well studied and a lot of the
formal logical fallacies get played in
through ego through ideology rights if
your egoistic about your ideas and you
don't want to be proven wrong you want
to prove the other person wrong you
might sort of take a shortcut to nowhere
by using one of the logical fallacies
for example probably the easiest fallacy
to describe in a short time is the ad
hominem fallacy right somebody says well
you know I think that we should be
mining coal in Montana for the following
reasons and not Nebraska for the
following reasons now you happen to
represent the Nebraska coal mining
Association and you want all the coal
mined in Nebraska and he says you should
mine in a Montana
well you know you might look at the data
but you might just commit the ad hominem
fallacy and say you know what Frank from
Montana coal you know you've sent a lot
of stuff in the past that doesn't make
any damn sense I think you're a special
interest kind of guy I think you can't
be trusted and I just think that you're
just a pretty sort of like just dull
character you're predictable you know
position stand and responses you know to
sum it up you suck and it is no reason
that a rational logical person you'd
even listen to what you have to say now
did you address anything of the actual
merits of mining coal in Montana for the
love of God
d/f calls mine in montana just an
example right no of course not you
didn't talk about the argument at all
what if all the same arguments that he
had were transferred to like the
grandmother that helped raise you who is
super sharp still is taught you damn
near everything you know one of the most
rational kindest Souls that you know you
trust her with everything you trust her
with your life and all of a sudden you
get home that night and you start
talking to Grandma about coal and she
tells you the same things like she's
well you know in Montana is a pretty
good place to mine coal and Nebraska has
all these downsides are you gonna tell
grandma she's a piece of shit I hope not
right
you wouldn't even it wouldn't even occur
to you to use that you'd be like wow man
we have to look at the actual data and
then you look at the data and turns out
you're wrong right but that's really
painful you don't want to admit that to
Montana guy so you might just do an ad
hominem attack which means directly
attacking a person their character or so
on and so forth if you know all the
logical fallacies are most of them
there's like 50 if you know at least 10
of the most popular ones social media
discussion becomes hilarious a fun game
to play especially as drinking game is
just open up social media debate see how
many logical fallacies you can find and
I would say take a sip of beer for each
one because if you take shots you're
just gonna be drunk in about 10 minutes
so yeah lots of impediments lots of
impediments thus this entire lecture I
wouldn't have to give this lecture if
there weren't this many impediments so
let's take a look at what we're gonna do
about them remember the goal getting to
the truth together the impediments the
five of these Eagle ideology the
personal experience that people have
heavy prior current investment and
certain idea
the formal logical fallacies they're
blocking us from doing this how can we
work around them well it's a multi-step
process how do we get started well
there's five parts I'll guide you super
quick through all five then we'll get
into the weeds of how all of them work
part one call it understanding and dent
efficacious that's where you learn their
position super born to learn where that
and you're clear about what your
position is so now the two actors have
an understanding of what's going on so
we have a sort of view of the topography
of the discussion then part two you're
going to do something really
counterintuitive you're going to
establish common ground you're gonna say
at least relevant
to the discussion of areas where you
agree and will give examples of that
after this the person maybe not so
hateful to you anymore and vice-versa
because it looks like you agree on a
bunch of stuff then part three is
exposing disagreement you're going to
want to define exactly what it is you
disagree about cuz remember a lot of
arguments the people are basically in
agreement they're just speaking past
each other so exposing a disagreement is
really important to be very spacious
very precise very specific getting
people to say exactly what they think
you say exactly what you think and then
all of a sudden there's kind of a sort
of a development where you kind of know
what's really going on what's up for
grabs what should be discussed you don't
want to spend your time discussing
things everyone agrees about right part
four is the actual reason we've showed
up right but notice it takes one to
three parts three sequences of
interaction to even get to reducing
disagreement which is part four wait
what it was on a plot the whole purpose
of arguing to convince is to reduce the
level of disagreement to get closer to
the truth
it takes three parts to set that up yes
why because the impediments to critical
thinking are so massive if we were
machines remember I said that if we
works perfect logical machines we get to
report for right away reducing
disagreement exchange data see where the
numbers lie but we can't that's what we
need those are the three parts I know
it's laborious I know it sucks but
that's the real world we live in and
then par-5 lastly super quick how to
exit an argument to make sure you're
leaving a good impression so on and so
forth you know even if you agree about
stuff if you punch a guy in the face at
the end he might choose to disagree with
you after but if you're it's super
disagreement and you shake the guy's
hand and you're super nice about things
they might give us some thought to your
idea later so let's get in to part one
understanding and identification what
and how does this work well what you're
gonna do is ask them questions about
anything in their views that seems
contradictory or mysterious why because
you really want to know where they're
coming from how in God's name are you
supposed to find where they're coming
from and take them to the truth if you
don't even know where they are you could
spend a ton of time convincing them of
stuff that they either are not prepared
for intellectually cuz this is not going
to make any sense to you you could spend
a ton of time convincing them of stuff
that has nothing
to do with the discussion or their
beliefs or you could spend a ton of time
convincing them stuff they already agree
with right so you really want to figure
out what's going on like someone says
you know I'm for lower taxes you have
probably good idea to be like so like
how low you know our taxes are we
talking about or so you're for lower
taxes serve across the borders it's just
a local level and state level national
level so on and so forth right and
another huge point I'm not gonna belabor
this too much is you can look up a ton
of information on it it's been studied
and sort of debate dynamics for a really
long time making sure you're
understanding their use of definitions
and that you're on the same page right
even high-level talks someone will say
velocity versus speed and all of a
sudden there's guys talking about two
different things so when they say a term
that you've not so sure what they mean
by it or even if you're mostly sure make
sure that you're on the same page with
terms when anything they're trying to
define when they say you know I'm trying
to get I think the best way to get
stronger is doing this kind of exercise
you might want to be like what do you
mean by strong now it seems like a
no-brainer to us right but strength is
very technical definition who's stronger
a thousand pound squatter or a 600-pound
bench presser
oh just vice by no means clear to me and
I'm a sports scientist who's right on
that we'd have to really dive in there
so get the specifics and make sure
you're understanding their use of
definitions so they can so they can
really be very very clear about them
right how do you handle this when they
tell you right if so they're gonna be
telling you stuff or writing stuff and
you have to sort of acknowledge that you
ask them a question right like where are
you coming from on this and they say
stuff and you just ignore and go on to
the rest don't do that that's super rude
people want to make sure that people
actually give a shit when they speak so
you're gonna have to evaluate very very
quickly if you don't have any other
questions for them if they've sort of
made convincing statements as to where
they're coming from you're gonna have to
evaluate it now here's the deal when you
evaluate it you sort of use like you can
use like a like a triple scale stuff you
agree with you can say something like
that's great point they say you know I
think that you know World War two was a
war in which mechanized warfare made a
huge difference going I totally agree
right
so you can say that's a great point
right you complement them that's awesome
they start to feel a little better you
go starts to drop off good stuff if they
make a point that's met like it's maybe
a little bit more complex than they've
made it seem or it's sort of like they
have some good points in there but some
stuff that's wrong or you're just not
sure if they're right or wrong you could
say and this is actually true um that's
pretty interesting so your response to
their you know shebang is that's really
interesting right um
that's really interesting does not say
that you agree with it but it also
doesn't say that you disagree because
you don't agree or disagree it's got
some goods got some bad or it's just
super mysterious right if they say stuff
that you straight-up disagree with you
have to say something pretty neutral but
that acknowledges that you are hearing
them and that their words are not wasted
on you that you're not their enemy but
just because you're not someone's enemy
doesn't make you their friend for
example let's say that you're debating
folks about very contentious political
issues right and let's say they say
something like you know I hate the rich
and I feel like we should be allowed to
be violent to rich people like
straight-up pull them out of their
Mercedes Benzes and just take their shit
no y'all walk that's not gonna lead to a
civil society and myself I come from
communist Russia originally so batshit
sounds really vile to me destroy the
whole country whole empire but I totally
understand sort of where they're coming
from like yeah if you've got fucking
rags and there's people like have their
own jet planes that can seem fucked up
right it really feels it like super bad
so when they say something to you all
you have to say you never have to say
you agree with it you don't even have to
call it interesting because you know
like pulling people out of their cars
it's not particularly interesting give
them a bit too much credence you could
say something like I hear you where you
can even say yeah I see where you coming
from right notice when someone says I
see where you're coming from or they say
I hear you or I see what you're saying
they do not agree with you at all but
when a person says something like that
to you let's say they're super violent
like socialist revolutionary and they're
like fuck the rich you're responsive
yeah I hear you
all of a sudden they maybe they thought
you were like us just a conservative
trolls maybe you are right beforehand
but now they think okay like this person
sees wrong coming from and they probably
still wrong about all this shit but
they're not a close-minded asshole maybe
I'll keep talking about that better
opportunity for you to potentially
convince someone right and if they're
interested in your views you should
absolutely answer any questions they
have about your views the thing is that
I have a note here it says it's rare
they usually don't ask right people are
usually Irish didn't your views remember
you're trying to convince them they
might try to convince you but they
probably haven't seen this slide show if
they have you'll just go straight to
point four and be robots right but
usually people don't ask for your
opinion you'll get a chance to put that
in at some point when it's relevant
right why are we doing all this
well you can't grab their hand to lead
them to the truth or walk to the truth
together if you don't know where they
are plain and simple so you need to know
where they are you need to know where
your are you could already agree it's
just different phrasing and here's a
huge one you actually make them feel or
you make them feel like you actually
give a shit how many times in
discussions and debates especially about
politics nutrition could really like
contentious stuff really passionate
stuff do are people used to people
actually caring about their views ninety
nine percent or some shit like that
of all debates is someone coming in
telling you you're wrong telling you go
fuck yourself and telling you they have
the truth and all of a sudden one
person's like so what do you think about
this you're like what the fuck nobody's
ever asked me that well problem I'll
tell you I've the expert right they feel
like they're an authority which is sweet
because in a sense they are right they
might have some truth that you don't
know about so it makes them feel like
you actually give a shit it makes them
feel like maybe you're not their enemy
and all of a sudden we're a reduction of
the ego ideology etc maybe some good
conversation can open up how do you know
when to move on from part one well you
can move on whenever you want but
probably the best time is when you have
a really well formed view of their
position and you can see it front to
back flaws and all remember if you have
barely any idea where they're coming
from
starting the argument after that you
just just like a roll road full of
potholes we have no idea where you're
going right and you could be like ice or
a CDN but maybe there's some swerves if
you have a really warm
you really know where someone's coming
from they're like here's why I hate
artificial sweeteners I list out five
points you asked them to clarify you say
oh that's pretty good point and here we
come from an that was really interesting
then all of a sudden they've really
explained their position you have
somewhere to go you you sort of see a
lay of the land
once you see lay on land then you can
move on to part two all right
in part two counter intuitive is
establishing common ground so first
thing you're gonna do there is list out
the main points on which you agree it's
better to list the underlying points
that sort of underpin the entire
discussion right you definitely don't
want to like list tangential points
you're like talking about artificial
sweeteners and you're like okay we agree
that the earth is a planet and then it
has an atmosphere and that people are
generally pretty good like you don't
have to go that far but you could say
okay so we definitely agree that
artificial sweeteners are like foreign
substances to our body and there's a
potential that they could be doing harm
course anyone scientifically literate
will tell you that and anyone who's like
super hippie-dippie anti artificial
sweeteners really rattle it of course
that's what they say right and you could
say and we we definitely know that like
long term health effects can add up over
years and generations not just right
away and they're gonna gap of course
same thing right and they didn't say and
health is definitely a priority and we
don't want to be fooled by big
corporations that fund a shit little
weird studies to get their artificial
sweeteners just you know through you
know regulations to get to make the
money we definitely don't want to be
duped yeah sweep right all of a sudden
we got common ground on the very issues
that matter good news they feel a little
bit more like you're not a bullshit
artist and you're not you're really
trying to get some truth on right if you
throw something out there and be like
okay so we agree on this yeah like we
both think and they go no no no no no I
don't I don't agree a fat let them
correct you don't be like no you said
that this and that don't do that they
have all the answers that they need to
tell you what they think about so let
them correct you be like oh - take um
can you please clarify this I'm super
interested to get your views on right
all right definitely resist the
temptation to be pedantic
right to get this like sort of authority
tone to kind of ridicule people with
your intellectual superiority
so you'll see this in debates a lot yeah
let's say we're talking about war or as
sort of the the demerits of pointless
wars or people think maybe pointless
wars yeah you know you don't want to
come at someone and say okay so we both
think war is bad right right like of
course every fucking buddy thinks war is
bad right you're just you're just a
cocksucker at that point you're like
talking to a four-year-old like you like
food yes yes food is good like get the
fuck out of here no this you're just
causing divisive this at that point
you're insulting people right if you
take that tone but you could say
something like all right so I think we
probably uh of the opinion that armed
conflict is sort of a last resort when
all other kind of relations break down
do you think that's true and they're
gonna be like yeah yeah totally and then
if you're anti-war you might just be of
the opinion that there's better ways to
foster there may be more relations
available on table and we see before we
get to war and they might be just as
anti-war as you but they might think
that there's just not as many other
options in this case and the war just
has to solve the problem but there's so
few people that are like yeah war is
cool right fine thinks that 13 year olds
think that or some shit to many
shoot-'em-up games right but basically
you're cutting them the slack and you're
seeing them for what they are and you're
not phrasing it in like this idiotic
manner so careful about establishment
common ground and be like all right
planets or a fucking real right you got
to be you know on the level things that
are related discussion
be respectful right huge help so why
does this work why is this a good thing
establishing common ground helps to make
sure that you're actually debating as
little as possible look you can legit
like line your brain up to somebody
else's and try to come to a point where
there is no disagreement between the two
brains on everything you guys ever see
an issue spiral out of control like that
where people start talking about
politics and there's talking about like
the demerits of boy bands versus other
boy bands like fuck did you guys get
into this stuff like you just trying to
disagree about everything if you
establish a tons of common ground you
can just wipe away all that stuff and
just get to this little tiny thing where
you disagree and then your job is so
much simpler and so much shorter versus
trying to get into 50 trillion other top
right it's also going to establish these
pathways on which you walk to the truth
like you basically said okay so we both
agree about health but health is
important and I'm like yes for
artificial sweeteners once you show them
the studies that show artificial
sweeteners are just fine for health you
can link that back in and say now even
though we both agree on health and it
looks like artificial sweeteners are
pretty healthy you know I'm not sure
what's going on what do you think and
there anybody yeah okay you're right
like I'm still skeptical but I see where
you've got that here and I think maybe I
overreacted right boom review only any
common ground'
as soon as you show them artificial
sweeteners are are healthy they're like
well that person is completely right I'm
completely wrong time to shift into ad
hominem mode they type - type in fuck
you you corporate shill and that's that
right so if you establish a good common
ground when you prove your points so to
speak or if you get closer to the truth
there's ways of linking that truth back
into the common ground and back into a
framework to where they already agree
with everything here now there's just
this little point they have to get to
with you and that's it right versus like
if you never did a and that stuff and
you they were here you were there and
you suck them into here they're just
fucking they were wrong and now they're
still wrong they just have to parrot
your ideas because you have better data
one of those is much better than the
other right and a really good thing
about this is it reduces animosity it
feels like you're on the same team if
you spend like 15 minutes talking about
common ground
how much animosity can you possibly have
left and I'm gonna make a quick
political statement here the vast
majority of people in Western Europe in
Asia and the United States probably the
world most of the world they're sort of
vision for the future is really fucking
similar right there's not any one
reasonable doesn't have a vision of the
future in which there's like homeless
people dying a fucking hunger on the
ground if they're a few people have a
vision of the future in which like uh
like Bruce Wayne's parents type shit
like rich people are getting gunned down
by the poor who fucking eat their limbs
right like fuck and kill the rich kind
of thing
but most people want everyone to be well
off for kids to fly balloons on Sundays
and for people to go to school and
there's another one
you maybe have a variety of views on the
environment but everyone likes a clean
environment you know no one like these
corporate types or super right-wing
people aren't like man if the rivers are
fucking colored like grime we win nobody
actually wants that right so a lot of
people agree on a ton of shit and if you
can get to those agreements and be like
like we all want damn near the same
thing now how much you're arguing about
how to get there
is a much simpler argument and it's very
very little to talk about relative to
all the shit right you know some folks
to say you know you know progressives
are trying to destroy this country
actually they're just trying to make it
better and they might have some really
shitty ideas about how to do that and
progressives like you know conservatives
are trying to fucking destroy the world
and they have fucking selfish and pieces
of shit and you know some of that might
be true but a lot of it's just not so if
you can admit a bunch of commonalities
get to a huge common ground issue your
impediment to agreeing to going to the
truth is just much smaller right and
here's the thing how do you know when to
move on you have a really clear a common
ground areas of agreement and if you
poke around in there you don't find
trapdoors to further disagreement and
the example here is when you're talking
to a conspiracy theorist I'm pretty good
at arguing to convince I've got all the
stuff pretty fleshed out in my brain
it's still difficult for me to
comprehend how to really properly go on
an exchange with a conspiracy theorist
and some of you might have been there
because getting them to agree on
anything is very difficult so for
example if you say you know so you think
that we you never the United States
never landed on the moon and they're
like that's correct like okay so it was
filmed you know in a studio in Hollywood
like yeah that's right okay so we agree
that the United States has the power the
manpower the technical acumen and the
60s and the resources to basically
replicate all of this in a Hollywood
studio
and keep everyone quiet I know like well
I don't think they can keep everyone
quiet and I don't know if they have the
technology to pull that off and you're
like all right
what do you mean by that like well
there's tons of people talking about it
and ponds of people know stuff and
you're like okay so we don't agree that
they kept everyone quiet and then
there's another there's another door and
then you're like well so then you know
what about the technology side of it
could they have pulled it off and
they're like well I don't know a lot of
technology we didn't even invent aliens
gave it to us and you're like oh okay so
it's not our technology like nope you
know so we can agree that aliens visited
earth and like well depends on what you
think of aliens or who they are you know
this is just never like this never
plateaus out or you speak to a true
conspiracy theorist it's just it's just
lies all the way in a giant circle like
a self eating snake type shit tough real
tough right I've engaged in some
discussion with people who were super
anti-vaccine getting them to like sort
of be like okay so you think vaccines
are bad for health and they're like yes
okay and the way they're bad for health
is measurable by our current science and
they're like no no okay so how do you
know they're bad for health I just know
all right so there's just trapdoors
everywhere we go that stuff but mostly
you know conspiracy theorists are small
percent of the population most of the
stuff is just for to people who just
happen to disagree at some point you're
just gonna get a good consensus when you
got it you move on to part three and so
will we
part three exposing disagreement okay
you've identified common ground now it's
time to really flesh out really specify
what it is you disagree on so you are
gonna attempt to summarize their
contentious views basically the views
you don't share with them you're gonna
try to summarize their views for them
it's actually a huge compliment because
you really give a shit and you're
telling them what it is that you think
they think which is great because
they're sort of like damn I'm half way
to convincing this guy if he's parroting
my views like so you think that we
should raise the minimum wage to $15 an
hour across the entire United States
because that will be something that will
result in more equity all around
the performance our economy and we great
for social justice am i phrasing that
pretty well and they're gonna be like
yes that's correct right and you think
that these things should go into a fact
sort of unanimously like we sign the
bill into law and sort of the next day
or the next month every single job
that's under $15 an hour goes to 15 . am
I am I correct understanding abdic
mm-hmm right where they say yeah that's
true why all those specifics because you
want them to get their present to
present their views as finite
quantifiable and specific as possible
why one of the reasons is that you want
to make sure that they don't later flip
around that view and change their
opinion so as to preserve their ego it's
not that you want to attack their ego
it's that you want to expose it so that
it's sort of sublimates into thin air
right so if someone says you know you
say okay so you want minimum wage for
all to be 15 an hour and they're like ah
okay so what about like a paperboy or
somebody that like a crossing guard at
school who gets like free school lunches
for doing something also 15 an hour and
they're gonna be like well no so there
you go so there's exceptions right and
like yeah for sure and then boy oh boy
do you have more work to do an exposed a
disagreement because now you have to
find out what exceptions so on and so
forth and and they might be like look
most people should be exempted from this
but you know if a company already has
the resources and if it's close enough
to $15 an hour if you already making 10
plus then it should just be 15 lots of
very different economic arguments there
are different effects right so it's
really good to make sure you get a very
precise view of their views on what you
disagree on because you're gonna want to
start from there later to actually
reduce the disagreement right and here's
the thing they should correct your views
when you present them their views they
should correct them to the most
charitable interpretation right it's
your job to do that as much as theirs so
you don't want to be like so you want
everybody including Paperboy right who's
dumb damn near no marketable skills at
all to make $15 an hour forever and not
be able to be fired tomorrow
that's not very charitable they could
have a
of minimum wage that's much more
charitable than that your job is to find
it presented have them agree to it and
then you're getting somewhere because
you're actually debating them the stuff
they really believe if you win a debate
against a view they didn't have because
you didn't give them the most charitable
view that's called Steele Manning their
argument right your straw Manning their
argument which is another logical
fallacy oh you're defeating something
but it's not their views right their
views are more nuanced more complex are
just different altogether right an easy
example of making sure to get views that
are quantifiable and finite I've seen
this discussion more times than I care
to admit who's stronger a strong man
like world Strongest Man winner or a
power lifter or a weight lifter how the
hell are you gonna do that if you don't
define what strength is so when you tell
them when someone says they think strong
men are stronger than powerlifters let's
say other way around is a simple example
somebody thinks power lifters are
stronger the strongmen simple question
is it so when you say strength you mean
that per unit of body mass scale to
their body weight power lifters can
squat bench press and deadlift more than
strongmen is that correct
they're like yep that's what I think
well that's fucking easy because that's
true they're right now at that it's up
to you at that point to be like sweet we
don't even disagree there now now I
think a lot of people when they see you
saying that they're stronger they might
think like they that you think power
lifters are stronger on stone lifts and
axle presses and stuff that strongmen do
and then they might be like oh no I
don't think that like okay so you're
just using strength to mean powerlifting
strength like yeah totally nearly then
there's no disagreement at all right but
if they make a claim that like yeah no
you know power lifters are strong are
strong men even at their events while
they're up shit creek they just don't
know it yet we'll get to that in part
four very important to get very specific
and very charitable views exactly what
it does they think right allows you to
have a very clear isolated discussion
about specifics you're not trying to
debate the nature of reality or the
whole fucking world you're trying to
debate very one very small thing that
you disagree about and you preventing
them from moving goalposts because look
if they said here's my opinion and you
reworded it back to them be like is this
your opinion am I getting this correct
and alecky yes as soon as you put a huge
hole in one of those later they're not
going to be able to be like well that's
not my opinion but it could but it looks
bad and it's
gonna go very far right versus if you're
not super specific about what you're
arguing about they can always be like
wow I didn't really mean that I meant
that like you still move towards the
truth it's just more laborious right and
here's the thing if you're telling them
so so am I correct and understanding
that this is where we disagree and
here's your opinions on it it makes them
feel like you give a shit and you know
what they're right because you do you
care you care about their views all of a
sudden if someone cares about what I
really think I'm way more likely to be
convinced by them in any number of
endeavors if someone you guys ever see
people debate and someone drops like a
link in like I'm like I think that
muscle growth can happen you know with a
low protein diet and they drop in a high
protein diet lit review they don't even
say anything but just link it my
inclination I've done this before is to
respond and be like excuse me can you
explain that link like if they don't
give enough of a shit to even say one
sentence about like actually this review
shows protein intake that's higher is
better for muscle growth
they don't have fucking time for that
fuck them they're never gonna talk me
into shit you don't give a shit about
what I actually think you barely care to
debate at all you're a lazy piece of
shit I don't have anything to do with
you because as much energy as you gave
to that you probably gave to your
thoughts which was dick so you're
probably wrong I don't never mean you
open the review right but if someone
literally is like hey where are you
coming from in this protein thing and
I'm like here's where I'm coming from
and Eric okay so is it I'm correct and
assuming you think this is this that I'm
like yeah that's completely correct
they're like okay great
well let's chat about it a little I'm
like man this guy gives a shit oh fuck I
I kind of want to see what he thinks and
all of a sudden it's way way better so
when do you move on to part four when
you know exactly what you disagree about
and to what degree are very the
topography of disagreement is very clear
they think this exact thing you think
that exact thing everyone knows now we
start the actual reduction of this
agreement which is part four so if we
were robots we've gotten to this right
away but we're not so we have to wait a
couple of these things establish common
ground understand so on and so forth now
we get to part four or reducing
disagreement how will we best do this
well I'll just
cut straight to the chase data is best
right if you have actual data about
something that's it let's say you're
trying to find out who has your Jews
doing that City comparison and you're
you know I'm grew up around Detroit so
we you know we're always super proud
somehow of Detroit having the highest
crime rate in the United States so
you're somebody from Chicago is like no
we've got the highest one oh boy
you know the easiest way to solve that
once you know you've done all the stuff
of finding out what they mean by crime
rate so on and so forth you just go
straight to the data there's a show of
data collected on it I'm gonna say you
know per capita or has a city total like
you can get the data and all of a sudden
that's all clear be like wow per capita
Detroit's still higher and they're like
oh fuck I guess you got us right and
they could be like well Chicago's bigger
we have more total murders or something
like that is above a subject but you
know you it's really clear immediately
what's happening when you have good data
on a subject now sometimes you don't
have great data so the next best thing
is to infer from limited data like you
know you have maybe you're trying to
figure out if coca-cola tastes better
than Pepsi or Pepsi tastes better and
coke to the average person because some
people still debate things like that
just for once a non political subject
right so some of the cokes better
Pepsi's better you know you might not
have really good data on it but you
could have like a couple of isolated
studies done by some supermarket chains
where they actually compared sales and
they did some taste tests or some blind
taste test and it's like four or five
taste tests um you know 50 people each
not exactly what you'd call rock solid
evidence because it's not a very good
distribution or across the United States
of the world maybe all these were done
in the state of New York as part of
somebody's like college project but you
know it shows that like coca-cola is
just way better and you show that
coca-cola has better global sales I'm
making this up on the spot I have no
idea on and then you said you know the
data is not super clear but it seems
like it's mostly for the coke being
being tastier by the way I can fucking
tell them apart personally which I
probably the only ones still left over
that can't tell Pepsi and Coke apart I
know people are show up to the
restaurants or like if it's Coke I don't
want it right so limited data sucks but
sometimes that's what best you have
after that you can have logical
inferences okay still not as great
expertise right so for example if
someone's like well I don't really
believe that vaccines do this match you
can say to fit there's no
good data on exactly the claims you
could say well you know every single
doctor from the like American
epidemiological society thinks that
vaccines are a good idea to properly
engage in and all of a sudden you know
it's a you know they could say well all
those people wrong they're bought paid
shills yeah they can but it's you know
some people would say that other people
would say um yes yeah okay maybe I
misunderstood the vaccine thing let me
go read about it some more every fuckin
doctor thinks it's a good idea you know
or ninety-nine percent maybe it's a good
idea so data is definitely best so what
how do you use this you you go straight
to the best sources and try to find them
if you can't you know second best their
best so on and so forth just as I
described super important here's the
following part super important when you
choose a contentious view that you're
debating what you're gonna do is present
the data or though you know Authority
stuff as a third person unsure about the
truth asking for their opinion right so
for example if you're debating someone
about squats being bad for the knees
they say squats are bad for the knees
you're saying they're not what you can
say is instead of being like dude every
fucking strength coach the squats aren't
bad for knees every PT says that damn
near every doctor here's the
biomechanics research on it that says
squats aren't bad for the knees fuck you
I'm out lock you know log out block
right there's that which it doesn't
matter how good the data is is not a
very good way to say something to
someone they're probably gonna just
ignore you or you say the following the
third person very reserved you're not
sure of the truth because listen all
this is true you're really not right you
say I can totally see squats being bad
for the knees on the other hand I was
curious what you think about this review
article on it right you can either post
the review article or list some of those
main points to make it easier for them
some researchers out of you know Harvard
Medical School put out I'm not a hundred
percent sure what to make of it myself
you're asking for them to look at really
good data and form their own opinion to
educate to you it's a hell of an
entitled position you're giving them and
most people are going to be way more
logical when they're doing that versus
when they're combative they're gonna
look at that paper I remember you asked
them when they're gonna be like yeah you
know looks like by this research squats
probably aren't that bad for the knee
is kind of my take on it and then you go
hey yeah thanks so much cool right on um
yeah I value your opinion a lot so that
I think thank you for clearing that up
that's sweet right versus like no
fucking you're wrong and here's the data
a lot of people when we read the data
but that's the case we're just gonna try
to argue every little part against it
you have to present the data because as
a third person because listen that's the
only way it's not your data you didn't
fuckin go to Harvard Medical School
collect that shit and even if it was it
could be biased as fuck because you're
the person presenting it right
you're just saying hey look I'm a ready
to believe that squats are bad for the
knees but like this just like elephant
in the room with this fuckin Vader like
listen I'm with you man I think that
could be bad from these two but just
what do you think that shit and they
look at it and I'm like fuck we're both
wrong for like okay so we don't believe
squats are bad for the knees like man
now that date is pretty convincing I
guess you know like that right and when
you see this a lot of you folks that you
know follow for the fitness stuff will
see the first part of the sentence might
wig you out a little bit you say I can
totally see squats being bad for the
knees and you could be like dr. Mike you
can't totally see that cuz it's fuckin
wrong we're like look if you're not
super educated on biomechanics or
whatever and even if you are squats are
heaviest fuck and you bend your knees
into a relatively extreme position based
on day to day activity you're loading
something under a high level of stress
and strain um I don't know I can totally
see how they could be like this put this
way if they like really did some really
good biomechanics research really good
really good analysis and ended up
finding out five years later that squats
were actually bad for your knees just
not super bad and it only ends up
hurting you 40 years later who's gonna
be surprised are you gonna be surprised
maybe like I can't believe that
something with 500 pounds downward force
and then shearing force into the knee
would cause it harm like I can believe
it right so you know it is he I can
totally see how it's bad form these is a
very true statement you can totally see
how it is but you can also totally see
how it's not you're just leaving that
part out because there's no reason to
get super combative right why are we
reducing disagreement this is a no
brainer they actually come closer to the
truth by examining the best evidence for
a together in an open-minded way here's
the evidence your shoulder to shoulder
with that person to be like alright what
are you making the stuff dude because
honestly I'm not that sure about it then
you
I'm behind you and they could be like
yeah that's not very convincing and then
you say okay you may be presenting more
evidence or at some point and we'll talk
about this a negress you just sort of
walk away because look if presenting the
best evidence didn't work and you were
using all these great strategies
sometimes you just can't convince people
at that time or ever and then you've
gotta back away I said you did your best
when are you gonna move on well after
the state of discussion has occurred and
this could take a while because they
could be like well the data's flawed on
the following ways you can be hit that's
a really good point what about this
other data and at some point you know
there's either enough data to convince
them and you or if they poke enough
holes in your data you learn because
you're like man I thought squats were
like super fucking for sure good for the
knees but like after try to defend it I
realized that there's not actually a lot
of really good data on that so I should
probably say on that shit so when people
ask me your squats bad for the knees
it's like you know we're actually not
super sure of that there's some good
reasons to think they're probably not
but the jury's still out
right that's maybe that's what they
showed you so when do you move on well
the easiest one is when you've come to a
consensus right they're like yeah I
think you're totally right about squats
thing man I'm super great discussion
thanks thanks sweet that's it right
you're on - I'll give a negress about
how to get out right you're done you
could come to a stalemate they're like
this is what I think I think the data is
just not clear enough yet
and that's as far as I'm willing to go
and you're like okay me too and then
it's its tail me talk about it a little
bit you didn't lose everything it's not
a terrible thing time constraint like
you're fucking sick and tired of being
on Facebook for two fucking hours and or
you know you gotta read a job or some
shit and you're like hey listen um I
gotta get going and we'll talk about it
near us I don't maybe come back to it
later but sometimes you just got to stop
right or and this is a one that you're
gonna find every now and again
deterioration into incivility where at
some point maybe you make a mistake of
getting a little emotional don't do that
or they just like have had it with your
patient ass and they're like you know
what data signs fuck you fight me block
we're not even blocked like you're just
a piece of shit another one of these
chills and you're like hey okay I see
that now as soon as it gets a uncivil
you gotta back away it's real tough to
get back in there at least at the time
get back in there at least at the time
so on and so forth where we getting all
this argument egress right how do we
leave an argument right as
soon as we've come to one of those
things consensus Naomi and so on and so
forth what are we gonna do at a minimum
you always want to thank folks for their
time especially you let me Instagram two
comments later
you never think people for the time like
thank you so much for writing me a
comment like good god with your fucking
cult right but if you're a real serious
discussion that lasts like ten comments
or 15 comments or two thousand comments
right or if you talk to someone for a
half an hour like you know a lunch or
something um thank them for the time
like Haven thanks so much for chatting
with me right
at a minimum right at a minimum thinking
further time it leaves a good taste in
the mouth
right and it's a really good thing if
the discussion was really civil thank
them for being civil why because and I
didn't sort of mention this in the
mission statements but a bonus mission
statement for discussing things is
promoting a culture of civility in
almost every case I can think of the
world can benefit from more civility for
more calm more reason from the logic for
more respect even if you learn nothing
and they learn nothing if you could just
increase the era of civility by calming
about it and thanking them for it that's
gonna be super great and sort of if it's
not over yet like you ran into a time
constraint then proclaim your return
plans don't just ghost people like
you're saying hey listen I gotta go they
have dinner with my family but later
tonight I'll be online again and we'll
take this up cool and they say cool and
you get back to it right why do we care
this is like probably one of the parts
of the presentation where the wire
really is sort of begging the question
why is argument egress important why do
we even care how we leave an argument
isn't the substance what we wanted sort
of the thing is you're always making
impression of some kind whether you want
to or not
and a good egress a good way to leave
the discussion makes a good impression
to them to the person you're talking to
and to onlookers look if they're just
super uncivil and super mean and you're
super awesome and at the end of the
debate you're like hey it's we talking
here thank you so much people who read
that thread later are gonna be like tam
dude I don't super agree with this guy's
views but he's just so good about it
like maybe I gotta look into these views
more or if they're pretty um sort of
ambiguous about their own views that I
really know then the
might be like wow this I just agree with
this guy by default he's the kind of guy
that probably knows more the truth
because he's so so even keeled right and
and of course if you don't convince them
of anything they if you're civil
and you egress properly then they might
think to themselves yeah that guy was
wrong I guess he made some points days
later weeks later months later they're
gonna stew on that shit they won't be
able to write you off as evil because
you weren't they won't be able to write
you off as careless because you weren't
yeah well the world won't be able to
write you off as like well the
discussion really degraded at the end
because it didn't because you left in a
very cordial manner and they're gonna
have that much higher of a chance of
thinking about the stuff you said I know
I have I've had discussions where
someone was really civil and really
broke my shit apart and then I never
admitted to them right there that they
changed my mind cuz they didn't but I
kept thinking about it kept thinking
started doing my own reading my own
research and all of a sudden I agreed
with him yeah years later months later
sometimes I reach out to them sometimes
I didn't
the way you egress the discussion might
leave someone of the real bad taste in
the mouth and I'm never gonna fucking
consider reviews ever again like if
someone from an Tifa or some shit tells
you to go fuck yourself and hits you on
the head with a baseball bat how likely
are you to sympathize with their goals
fucking kidding me in care if they there
might be literal Nazis fighting them and
you'd be like I hope the Nazis win
because fuck that guy right terrible but
that might be what you think but if
someone you have a discussion or someone
from ntfs passing out leaflets or
organization that's similar progressive
goals and they chat with you and they're
super nice about it you might not have
any anything to do with that kind of
ideology but you're like oh man you
might have some good points and maybe
some of the stuff we could integrate in
our society a very very different thing
and if they are super uncivil and you're
still very civil it's a huge boost to
your approach from on lookers not only
does this make them more likely to
consider your points of view and walk
themselves closer to the truth the
onlookers people to read the thread Lior
people hear your conversation but it
also promotes the benefits of silver of
civility right to them right so they
might be like yeah I don't
super agree with what this guy was
saying but boy we could all learn from
the way that that person talked like I
wish everyone talked like that right
and when you're moving on is super
simple when you sort of finish stating
and arranging all those things you've
egress properly said said your goodbyes
thank people for being civil or if they
weren't just said you know thank you for
your time
then you get to go right and so where
does this leave us let's close out the
discussion like this first huge point
full agreement is almost never a
realistic goal well you could have it as
a sort of pie in the sky goal but your
full agreement is super unlikely all
right it's an ideal which means that if
you don't get to full agreement don't
worry you didn't fuck anything up all
the best weapons of logic and discourse
can't reliably get you to full agreement
they can do better than the alternatives
but sometimes it's tough right but the
good thing is that any movement closer
to the truth is good if someone started
out being 90% wrong and you may be 10
percent wrong and at the end of a long
discussion they are 70 percent wrong and
you're five percent wrong you're both
that much closer to the truth that's
fucking great right let's put this in
the political light do you want people
voting on policies and politicians that
are 90 percent wrong about the way the
world works or 70 percent wrong um I
think that 20 percent is gonna fucking
matter about something right they may
vote for all the worst environmental
laws or military stuff but they might
vote okay on health care you know cuz
that 20 percent cut you know what I mean
so it's it's any movement to the truth
is a good thing and remember all
movement to the truth is incremental
there's no revealed wisdom you get an
average person from the dark ages
their average opinion on a variety of
things about how the world works is
gonna be fucking damn near completely
wrong you get someone from the post
enlightenment to maybe somewhere between
the Enlightenment and Renaissance or
something and they're gonna start to see
some shit that actually was true and
some of the shit's really bad and then
you get someone from the modern Western
world today and they're gonna have a lot
of opinions and ideas about like how the
world works that are pretty fucking good
well Lea short of the Flat Earth
movement right for example and I mean
evil x you'd be like so is the earth
round to be like no like
that's thank you for your opinion we're
gonna pack up her fucking time machine
you get the fuck out of here but you ask
someone in 2018 you know modern person
like is the world well you know world
round they'd be like all right what's
the flat earth joke and you're like no
no joke just a serious question they
were like of course it's fucking rapidly
you know technically semi spheroid or
whatever right but you know like we've
made some pretty serious progress was
there any point during that time at
which people went from a hundred percent
wrong to a hundred percent right no it's
always incremental so don't worry about
it if you're making incremental success
that's really really good even if you
make no incremental success you didn't
change anyone's mind you don't learn
shit about you know your opinions didn't
change just the positive vibes of good
discourse of civil discourse of
politeness of teaming up to try to
establish a common ground all that stuff
is good and that'll potentiate movement
towards the truth later on today you
have a person that is bitter and pissed
in his argumentative in his egotistical
and won't budge and you wasted a whole
hour of arguing with them but through
that hour you developed a sense of
civility in them in a sense of common
ground and you got fucking nowhere they
might keep that sense of civility for a
while maybe forever and then the next
time you talk or someone else talks to
them they might actually already having
had a lot of common ground see if their
opinion by one percent tada now we're
moving right so even those good vibes
are a good thing right to that end you
don't have to run the formal fucking
process every time you're a Google Earth
lecture and see where dr. Mike you know
has a fucking you know what's web part
three now I guess some point three point
one you know they're arguing to convince
series like okay we're when you get to
park four and then par five you don't
have to think like that you can just
really bring the spirit of civility to
conversation is the most important thing
the spirit of seeing where someone's
coming from or not telling them what
their opinions are but of asking for
them and re-staining them in your own
language of cutting them the benefit of
the doubt that they're coming from a
good place of trying to focus on exactly
what you disagree about and and offering
a third-party perspective of okay
neither one of us are sure about this
what do you think about it right those
kinds of practices if even if they're
out of order or there's no rhyme or
reason to when you do them just sort of
painting it in that light is already a
huge step forward so if you can just do
that great right not doing that is like
starting a debate with fuck you if you
definitely just failed at everything
right but even if you didn't get all the
points right you maybe sort of had to
redefine terms like way later because
you forgot shit we never define terms no
big deal but if you're like hey um like
so I think some of the definitions we're
using might be a little off which is
totally cool um here's how I'm
understanding you're saying that what
you mean by the term work here's maybe
how I'm using it what do you think like
am I wrong somewhere with this or are we
kind of like you know sort of speaking
past each other and they might say no no
no I
your definition sounds fine and it
sounds similar enough to mine I think
it's the same thing you look sweet right
so it's okay that you went out of order
as long as you have that civility
cutting them slack so on and so forth
here's the deal
even a ton of brilliant people some of
the most brilliant people can't convince
their way out of fucking plastic bag
right they've never convinced anyone
else anything sometimes because they're
so egotistical themselves they just
assume a level of combativeness that's
not even there you know like an
evolutionary biologist is incredible
might be sitting next to someone who
doesn't believe in evolutionary biology
out of no just it has never been taught
they've just been you know reading the
religious texts and they might be like
hey so you're an evolutionary biologist
right so I don't I don't know about the
theory of evolution I don't know if it's
true can you tell me about it'd be like
you know if it's true only fuckin
hundreds of years do we have to fuckin
write paper after paper there's biology
books in the shit go fuckin read that
check it on my face right that could be
the preeminent scholar evolutionary
biology maybe allows many swear words
but they can be like you know what it's
appalling to me that in this day and age
you could even ask such a question
do they convince anyone of anything no
it happens all the time all the time
right you can do better our industry the
fitness industry whatever industry in
whatever space you're in society can do
better
we can all benefit here's the deal I'm
gonna leave you on all those are sort of
emotional front you can choose and you
carry the shield with a civil discourse
into all discussions into which you go
carry well see you guys next time
[Music]