start off with squats for your legs
unusual for Hollywood Andy here is going
to show us some good squat technique
I've never asked you for much God
Justice once let things go well
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I'm the creator of the RP
hypertrophy app and a professor of
exercise and sports science at Lehman
College in the Bronx and today Chris
Pratt is on the menu oh no wait I saw
that a little wrong in any case we're
gonna see what his training looks like
and maybe even what his diet looks like
and use our crazy RP expertise to see if
he is awesome meh or Kim Kardashian
let's get into it
hi everybody I'm Duffy gaver Duffy gaver
looks really jacked first observation
second of all Duffy's not a real name
what's your real name sir Mike Bob Jim
Eric
Duffy is a last name maybe
I'm kidding it's a fine name sir
let's find out what you know CrossFit
coach and a trainer CrossFit coach and
trainer that could either be really good
or really bad
I wonder I work a lot for Marvel some of
the celebrities I've trained include
Brad Pitt oh he's trained Brad Pitt I've
done things with Brad Pitt's picture
that you could call training because
they're physical there's a lot of
sweating a lot of huffing and puffing my
forearms are pumped I have a lot of
guilt Toby Maguire Toby McGuire
delicious
straight aren't I Channing Tatum
Channing Jesus all this Dreamboat
Express
Duffy you have a real name sir I'm
jealous of it and you Chris Hemsworth
Chris Hemsworth
oh my Lord this is this guy is like
what
he's got the dream job that's a I doing
with my life sitting in a
YouTube Studio damn it Carlos Johansson
Scarlett Johansson can stay you feel me
even though I'm on my gay Vibe right now
black widow or whatever he could be
any color you want Chris Pratt to name a
few all right Chris Pratt finally the
person we were talking about when I
started training Chris regarding the
Galaxy he had just come off a roll where
he got particularly out of shape oh yeah
those Chris Pat pictures are him out of
shape you know when I see them and he's
like kind of confidently showing it off
I think in his head he's like I'm a
 multi-millionaire famous person
all of you who gives a could you
imagine coming up to Chris Pratt be like
man you look like be like yes I'll
just buy you out so you never say that
again got it you're like okay I guess
you're in my life now his transformation
on his effort is huge he's a dedicated
guy dedication and look at those
pictures my God I think one of the
misconceptions about how celebrities is
trained is that it's different than how
you would train I wonder how those
misconceptions come to be when making
Men's Health puts up celebrity training
video that are pure nonsense
[Music]
but when you think about it a lot of
people in the gym actually also train in
a purely nonsensical style so Duffy may
be correct on both grounds I guess it's
true to say that just like regular
people some of them train like total
 and some of them train quite well
let's find out where Chris Pratt is on
that very short Spectrum the fact is
getting in shape has to do with going
and busting your ass in the gym so I'm
going to take you through a quick full
body workout so that you can get in
shape like Chris and other A-list actors
Duffy's like I don't like being on
camera get it out of my face I'll just
say minimally what I have to and I'm not
gonna smile about it either
dope that was a real squat start off
with squats for your legs unusual for
Hollywood almost too effective too
direct Andy here is going to show us
some good squat techniques okay he's a
CrossFit coach I'm expecting these to be
good squats
I've never asked you for much God
Justice once let things go well
amen you want to keep your chest up get
your butt down yeah yeah yeah
Duffy my man keep the back nice and
straight that's about as perfect as they
come yeah ladies there's no better way
to improve your legs or rear very
important to get your hip up under you
and completely open at the top of each
wrap check
check big green fat check mark amazing
next so my favorite back exercise for
building thickness in my clients is one
on dumbbell Rose so Andy's going to show
you how it's done
Duffy tip use as much weight as you can
handle this is very not Hollywood this
is awesome
and the technique is great big stretch
at the bottom control eccentric on the
way to the bottom touching your ribs at
the very top oh man
Duffy tip keep back straight and stick
butt out again agreed on all counts this
is just good old hardcore great
technique lifting to get jacked damp no
wonder Chris Pratt is in amazing shape
his trainer is the man the trainer my
job is to be a guy he said my job is to
be a guide I thought for a second he
said as a trainer it's my job to be a
guy like huh now we're gonna do bicep
curls with a bar yeah barbell bicep
curls I love it hardcore awesome classic
movement Works super well amazing this
is great probably the single most
efficient way to build arms
that guy's arms are pretty big too so
another great exercise is the dumbbell
flies very old school here you got a
perfect example of dumbbell flies
dumbbell fly looks great
he's controlling The Eccentric nice and
slow a little pause at the bottom
excellent no critiques
so now we're going to do some bench
press which is uh about as good as you
get for building chest bench press is
one of the best exercises for chest
growth
pause if you don't like it if it hurts
your shoulders or whatever it's not the
only exercise that goes your chest
really well there's tons of others but
if you can get a big Peck pump and a big
Peck stretch and your shoulders and
elbows feel okay barbell benching
barbell benching is amazing and it built
the preponderance of my PEC size do you
guys ever like walk around the mall or
something going out to eat you just have
to check on your pecs to make sure
they're still there like I just do that
please
have a good I'm good I'm good
in a bad dream like a nightmare I'm like
oh no and they're gone I start crying I
wake up crying
every other day all right folks if you
like that video you might like the
extended edition with all the nasty
stuff we can't see on YouTube cut in the
member section is yours for that give it
some thought and maybe you can join
it also works the look at that he's
touching all the way down it's as if
Duffy actually knows things amazing
Hollywood you should be training with
Duffy if you're not
you should be training with Duffy do you
have another Trainer Fire them go to
Duffy
your trainer's pretty good and you love
them
pink slip in his locker you're fired
Duffy's my man the front delts triceps
wait wait what's your trainer's name
it's Duffy now enjoy the perfect
technique because that's what he knows
this is excellent technique you'll
notice he's retracting shoulder blades
he's lifting his chest up he's slowly
controlling the weight for a nice pause
right at the actual chest itself for a
deep stretch and then he's returning in
an athletic way all the way to full
lockout this is wonderful stuff these
folks are really really lucky to have Mr
Duffy as a trainer and it says Duffy tip
do not bounce bar on chest perfect why
no bounce one is you're needlessly
causing traumatic stress your tissue and
two The Bouncing makes it easier you
want it harder at the bottom not easier
you want to use muscular power instead
of
reflex action so now we're going to go
over the ab mat setup you just want to
bring your back go down far enough you
don't want your butt to come off the
floor
and then back up that's great the atmat
setup allows you to get into a great
degree of spinal extension this
stretches the ABS puts them in a
mechanically disadvantageous but also
very muscle growth promoting position
and then you can curl back in and get
the full range of motion this is an
excellent exercise and for most folks
that just want to get in great shape
this is kind of all you need for abs
this is this is awesome stuff there is
not a single exercise here yet which is
not a great exercise these are all great
exercises all taught very very well
um man if you want to copy someone's
training in Hollywood Chris Pratt's the
man because Mr Duffy is in his corner
oh man they're holding it at the top too
and control the eccentric
music to my ears
that's one version of a full body
workout the important thing is less the
workout and more about what you bring to
the workout you have your will your
desire your discipline again bringing
your A game dope although the workout is
important
Mr Duffy just takes for granted that he
knows things and isn't the idiot like
most other Hollywood trainers want to
look like an A-list actor then you gotta
show up and you gotta train hard if it
was easy everybody to be in shape
VH1 thank you for still existing
all right this is actually Chris Pratt
doing the one-arm road I suppose Duffy
perfected for him
[Music]
not bad I would like to see a little bit
more eccentric control
but otherwise very good
okay those are the world's worst
Pull-Ups Duffy where you at
your boy's up no full stretch
no reliable range of motion
just not a whole lot for
the back to be doing here I would like
to see assisted pull-ups or pull Downs
if Mr Chris Pat's not strong enough to
do some real actual pull-ups actual real
pull-ups the good kind you stretch all
the way down Big Stretch at the bottom
let everything loose and then come all
the way up getting your chin roughly
around the bar even up higher if you
want
oh wow this is a news clip pumping up
Chris Pratt does push-ups at the gas
station
very well
those are terrible push-ups in the
mid-range of motion I have no idea why
he's doing them somebody drug test that
man if not for steroids for psychoactive
drugs like mushrooms or acid maybe even
like day three of meth sometimes you
just gotta get a pump though it
must be really weird being a Hollywood
celebrity because like everyone kind of
knows you like the guy back there is
probably like hey you're Chris
Pratt aren't you I hated the
Guardians movie I hate what you do with
the script sir I don't write the script
hey shut up I'm talking to you
listen anyway what you should have done
is told that one green girl you know
this has to be a daily occurrence
victims of your work with Chris you
mentioned at the beginning of the
interview that he was a little on the
heavier side when he first met Tim first
of all I can hear a Midlands
accent from England any fun day of the
week a comfrey and it when you started
actually training him
um what were his Fitness levels like and
how did you go about improving them when
he did 0-30 I think he dropped down I
think he dropped
probably 30 pounds or so 30 pounds is a
lot for that roll
um and that's his hard work you know we
we cleaned up diet we got him on the the
intermittent fasting hours dinner
Mountain fasting works just fine we have
a few videos on how to optimize it if
you'd like to click through
um it's cool it's not gonna be ideal for
preserving muscle perspective because
your body likes to feed relatively often
on protein in order to well have protein
in its muscles but not the worst thing
in the world so I did something called
intermittent fasting and I ate from like
noon to about 6 p.m that was my window
to eat noon to 6 PM is a curious time
when to which to put your feeding window
unless you're going to sleep early early
why
because typically you can fall asleep
better if your stomach is full of food
especially in a hypocaloric fat loss
diet
if he's going to bed at like normal evil
time which is generally like or sort of
11 pm it's five hours without eating
that's right when you start to get
really hungry how the are you
supposed to go to sleep I would prefer
the intermittent fasting
feeding window to be from something like
you know gee 4 to 10 p.m or something
like that and what did I eat in that
time what did you eat Mr Chris Pratt
pretty much just healthy boring stuff
healthy boring stuff some
honesty out of Hollywood I love it there
was a lot of chicken breasts there was a
lot of lean protein a lot of vegetables
I might have like corn tortillas with
some eggs a lot of avocado good clean
healthy fats tons of coffee black lots
of coffee you're on a big diet you want
the energy you want the focus and you
want the appetite suppression caffeine
is great I'm like a cowboy you know I
drink my coffee black yes yes there are
many ways to be like a cowboy and one
minor one is to drink black coffee do
Cowboys are known for that I suppose
since he was playing a seal you know it
was very important to
what I call being combat shape
interesting let's listen in you have the
the movie looking you know ripped up in
shape but we live as seals were on the
go so much we don't have a gym
everywhere we go accurate you know a lot
of times we only have a set of dumbbells
and there's times where we don't have
that but you can usually find a place to
do pull-ups you can always find a place
to do squats you can always find a place
to do push-ups you know and so that's
really what we adopted for this training
that's kind of interesting it you know
typical Special Forces operators don't
look like Arnold Schwarzenegger or
Sylvester Stallone those are more like
bodybuilder looks they actually look
like fit and healthy men and they're
often like pretty lean though sometimes
not super lean they have some muscle but
not a ton of muscle their endurance
capabilities are really high they can
Sprint really fast they can jump they
can do pull-ups and push-ups and stuff
but they're really the thing they're
paid to do the most is
put your site on Target and pull the
trigger really fast
and then reanalyze the situation and do
that over and over again the fitness is
a little bit secondary and they're
absolutely not being judged enough
physique so when the movies have like
action stars with pop delts and bicep
veins you know no offense but he's still
looking like this not what
a special forces operator typically
looks like real operators are typically
quite a bit shorter they usually weigh
something like 180 pounds instead of
like 240 and they don't look exceptional
externally but when gets popping
they're gonna kill you did you actually
work on his psychology in order to
make that a replica essentially of what
a seal would go through working on the
psychology pretend psychology this is an
actor and you can't get hardened up like
a seal unless you go actually see live
combat after you've successfully passed
buds training let's see what this
gentleman has to say and then yeah we we
have those conversations of you know
really like hey we don't have to do this
we get to do this like this is something
we get to do that's a really good point
you don't have to do this you get to do
this working out is a technically a
Leisure activity it is entirely
voluntary
and if you're having trouble motivating
yourself to work out understand that it
is a privilege you get to enhance your
health and your quality of life and your
appearance by doing something that also
enhances your psychology and your pain
tolerance and makes you happier at the
end of it so don't try to push yourself
towards working out think of what
working out really is and it'll pull you
towards it you'll want to do it
there is no avoiding hard training if
you want to grow but if you want to grow
the most your training needs to be hard
and smart RP hypertrophy app will make
sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best results
when I was a oh man's health on
Avengers you had so many superheroes
together they all had private chefs and
I was like hey let me get some of that
and so I got into Hemsworth's Chef who
cooked Me Kangaroo what the that's
that's awesome kangaroo doesn't taste
that good by the way after two days I
mean look my arms are half the size of
his I can't believe that I would eat
five cheeseburgers for lunch oh my God
that's a lot
holy he got fat the old-fashioned way
just raw overeating I lived in like a
constant state of oh God freaking sick
I've eaten so much and that was
happiness at that time and now it's the
exact opposite it is nice eating junk
food is very pleasant we have to
recognize that that fact so like he's
like yeah I was happy doing that but now
happiness is eating clean and getting
lean and stuff
now eating is boring but the times
between eating I feel great whereas
before eating was fun but the times
between I felt like crap yeah the First
Transformation of my body to become star
lord was the hardest because I had the
the furthest to go I was about to almost
300 pounds and never oh my God he was
almost 300 pounds
[Music]
holy
that's a tough Journey he said something
interesting the first transformation
into Star-Lord was the toughest and then
after that like much easier
the first time you lose a ton of weight
or put on a ton of muscle will be the
most difficult and if you ever gain some
weight back or lose some muscle getting
back to your previously attained state
is a way way easier so if you've been
fit before but you've kind of slacked
recently don't think it's going to be as
hard to get back your Fitness as it was
to get it it's going to be much easier
so get back in the gym right now and get
on it
uh oh cheat meal periodically you gotta
treat yourself with a cheat meal don't
do that cheat meals are stupid and I
have a whole lot to say about it on this
channel and other videos if you just
search my last name Israel and cheat
meal you'll get uh at least a few videos
saying how it's not a good idea in the
context of a fat loss face once your fat
loss face is over and you've achieve
your goal
cheat meal to galore but until you've
done what you need to do in that phase
of 8 to 12 weeks long a fat loss dieting
with hardcore training cheating is just
gonna set you back and it's gonna make
plugging back into the diet harder
because you're going to just want to
cheat more after you get that first
little sniff bad news and so for me it's
desserts man I go to my mother-in-law's
house for Sunday family dinner and I
just go crazy on the desserts and that's
everything for me yeah if you go crazy
on that stuff you can gain like a pound
of body fat in a day and if you lose a
pound of body fat in a week you can see
how one cheat meal a week even cheat
meal cheat go crazy with desserts can
really set you back and I'll do about
seven days worth of damage accurate
amazing and take about seven days to pay
that off and at the end
um get right into it oh
seven days of damage seven days to get
back into the groove and then damage
again
foreign
that was interesting so on the diet
stuff totally fine again two things
intermittent fasting is not ideal if you
want to make it more ideally move the
window up closer to the evening maybe
have a few protein shakes or protein
only snacks through the day that's even
better so the diet's okay the training
as far as Chris was demonstrating some
of the videos not ideal but as far as
Duffy has instructed phenomenal
wonderful Duffy for now has our best
trainer we've ever had on the celebrity
Hollywood workout reviews so far and
that title will remain his until unless
somebody does better so on the training
nine out of ten
4.56 out of 4.98 make sense of that see
you guys next time
[Music]