hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization welcome to video number
eight in our series of how to build your
hypertrophy plan now that you've built
your hypertrophy plan you have to make
sure to execute it properly and that
means increasing and decreasing the
number of working sets that you are
doing
and some of the working set increases
and decreases come from how you feel
about the sets perceptively we'll get to
that in another video but a lot of what
determines how many working sets you're
doing is going to have to come
from how pumped you're getting and how
sore you're getting I'll talk about in
just a bit what those mean and how to
interpret them and how the hypertrophy
app interprets them because these videos
are program design videos and program
execution videos but they're also like a
mini advertisement if you're curious
about the hypertrophy app the
hypertrophy app is out now it's for sale
I would recommend buying the year if you
buy a month you like it and you go for
the year after in any case the link is
in the description so please get at that
and uh enjoy I like the app a lot I
actually will never train ever again as
long as I live uh without my hypertrophy
app as I'm doing I've heard of training
the app's coming with me I had one
workout a few weeks ago where like for
whatever reason I have access to my
phone and I just had to like do some
pump work at a jam I was traveling for
work and I was like this is off I have
nowhere to write my reps it's like the
app loves me and it knows me and it
tells me exactly what to do and without
it I'm an unwanted child and it's like
like an adopted child to a family where
everyone in that family has a connection
except for you you know and Christmas
like the gifts they get are really good
and your your gift's always like not
that great just feel unloved that's what
it's like training without the app in
any case
soreness let's talk about it what does
soreness tell you
you don't have to get sore
in order to grow muscle
period
so if you never get sore that's not a
problem
if your muscle growth for a muscle is
good and you never get sore
just keep on doing what you're doing
great great results will continue
on the other hand
if your growth isn't that great and you
feel that the muscle is understimulated
it's also just you don't get really
tired training it you seem like your
your mind muscle connection is not that
great
it also doesn't get pumped and all this
other stuff and it's not getting sore
you could probably do more volume in
order to do more stimulus
in order to survive more hypertrophy and
while you're giving it more stimulus
you're going to give it more damage and
that's going to trigger the soreness
response so no you don't have to get
sore but if you're not getting sore and
you're not getting good results
increasing the volume might be a good
idea
if you're getting a little bit sore
all the way up to soreness that heals
just before the next time you train that
muscle
there are 99 things you could do to
improve your results but training more
probably isn't one of them if you're
getting a little bit sore and you have
room to continue to get even more sore
and still heal you could add a little
bit of volume
if you're getting as so sore that let's
say Monday you train chest and on
Thursday you train chest if every time
you train chest Monday Wednesday evening
is the last twinge of soreness and then
Thursday morning is the first time you
don't feel sore
if you trained more than that you would
drive so much damage that you would
still be under able to perform in that
Thursday exercise and that Thursday
session
training a muscle while it's sore once
or twice isn't a big deal but
consistently training him when it's soar
means you're training it when it's
tissue Integrity is lower higher chance
of injury and it hasn't properly
recovered yet so it's chance of growing
more muscle is lower than if you let it
recover and don't don't do so many sets
that you get chronic overlapping
soreness
you get chronic overlapping soreness to
say you're like you're going to say I'm
gonna do eight sets of chest every
Monday every Thursday and every single
fucking week Monday Thursday your chest
is still sore from last time you should
be doing fewer sets
if the answer to Growing more was just
to do more we wouldn't need Sport
Science and you just do as much as you
can grow and you'd be infinitely big
you're the Juggernaut congratulations
but the reality is
training is a fine line between doing
too little and doing too much and if
you're so sore you can never recover you
have to do fewer sets and if you're
never sore and you're not growing you
should probably be doing more sets
so how does the app handle this well
It'll ask you how sore you're getting
it'll not ask you that in the first
session of the first time you use the
app because what are you sore from you
should not be sore yet
but as the sessions that we progress and
a muscle group you've already trained
earlier in the week is trained again
the app is going to ask you hey
how sore did you get
and it uses that data
to inform how much volume it gives you
for that session it's asking about next
time notice it's not the same session so
let's do the demo here bench press
medium grip 160 pounds I got 11 reps I
check it in
and boom it comes up and asks me chess
soreness now notice the wording here
it's very important how sore did you get
in your chest after training it last
time
not this time it's set number one you're
not sore you're just pumped maybe a
little bit or maybe a lot you don't get
sore right then and there the question
it's asking you is did you get last time
you trained your chest so think back
okay it was last Monday
maybe you never got sore
maybe you got a little bit sore healed
totally on time maybe you just healed
like it was Thursday that you trained it
Wednesday you barely just healed
and Thursday you're like great for the
first time ever or you're still sore
depending on which one of these you
answer the app will increase decrease or
maintain the number of sets you do for
that Monday workout next week because
look look at it this way if you did six
sets of Chess last Monday
and this Thursday your chest is still
sore the app's going to kick you down to
five cents because six is too many but
if you did three sets and you never got
sore the app is among other factors that
it balances because it's more of a
complex algorithm we'll talk about that
in a few later videos it'll at least
somewhat suggest to the algorithm like
hey this person might need four sets
next Monday because the three sets they
did was just they never got sore and if
you got a little bit sore or just healed
generally it mostly does nothing with
that and it says Hey the volume is
pretty good there are some conditions
under which it'll alter volume here but
that's a nuanced discussion that's
actually just proprietary algorithm
stuff I'm not allowed to share so
Engineers will kill me in any case you
rate it you say it never got sore it
goes okay got it you don't have to do
dick about it the app does all the
thinking for you
all right that's soreness what about the
pump first of all what the hell does the
pump even have to do with muscle growth
it has two things to do with muscle
growth one there has been direct
causative literature mechanistic
literature scientific studies that show
that actual cell swelling triggers the
molecular Pathways that cause muscle
growth that's a real thing the pump
literally causes muscle growth itself
baller
but that's probably not a lot of
hypertrophy or it's a real transient
where it increases the size of the cell
for a few days and the cell size goes
down there's a lot of stuff your body
can increase and decrease the size of a
bunch of organs for very for a very
small amount of increase very small
amount of time and then it goes back
down and cell swelling probably does
cause some long-term aperture fee but
probably not a ton indirectly however
think about the kind of training that
makes you the most pumped training that
is close to failure
training that is with high tension
training that targets the muscle that
you're going for if you get a forearm
pump doing bicep curls but not a bicep
pump you have a fucking problem your
biceps probably aren't growing much
because how the hell are the forums
essentially getting all the stimulus
themselves so there the pump is a proxy
to stimulus and also metabolites if you
go close to failure
generating a crapload of metabolites the
burn that almost always triggers the
pump afterwards so the pump is the
canary in the coal mine
you know the canary goes in there to die
of the poison gas that's that's why they
use the canary in the coal mine
or the canary is like a super Canary and
it comes back out like I was good and
then my coal miner goes down and he dies
and the canary is like
it's good for me man gas like fucking
laughing gas to me bro so don't have a
super Canary in any case
the pump tells us hey is there other
stuff happening that's probably
causative of muscle growth if you get no
pump at all from your training man
the app's probably going to tell you to
do more sets because this not enough
if you get a good pump or a great pump
the app's like bro you're good where you
are
if you get an extreme pump
an amazing punk what I have found in my
experience is that tends to correlate to
a high level of delayed onset muscle
soreness and a high level of muscle
damage
all of the workouts I've ever done in my
life after which I got insanely sore I
have the most psychotic pump ever
and I should have fucking stopped
earlier is what I always tell myself
I got an unreal pump in my quads after
three sets of leg press and I'm like
that's the workout yes because I would
do two more sets and then I'd not be
able to walk well and then I would get
sore for like eight days straight which
is too much it causes too much damage
if you have an amazing pump
unreal pump in that muscle group
you can be done and it's totally cool
now if you know when you get an amazing
pump it doesn't get so sore and you can
keep training that's all you you keep
going but the app if you have an unreal
pump
it feeds into the algorithm to tell the
app to probably not raise your sets
anymore because if you're getting
amazing pumps you're winning if you're
getting shit pumps they're not that
great you could probably do more under a
few different circumstances and the app
algorithm layers all that in so we're
doing bench presses we did our first set
the last set
of the muscle group so it could be bench
press if we did dumbbell press after it
wouldn't ask you a pump until the whole
chest muscle was stimulated because it's
trying to assert assign sets to the
whole chest muscle group it's going to
ask you a couple questions when you
check in joint pain we saw last time so
we'll say no pain
the chest workload thing we'll do that
in a future video don't worry about that
yet but the chest pump it asks us a
question did you get a low pump a
moderate pump or an amazing pump
based on how you answer that it will
recommend
to its own internal algorithm that
thinks a little bit more deeply about
things to keep the sets the same to
lower the sets or to increase the sense
in that way if you use the hypertrophy
app
what you do is you just do honest
ratings the entire time and honest
ratings are so important I'll talk about
why in a sec if you honestly rate
what the app does is it recommends the
amount of sets per view on every
exercise and every muscle group over
time that gets as close as possible to
our best scientific understanding of
your ideal volume eventually you want to
do a volume that is getting you nice and
pumped
sore that's anywhere from a little bit
sore to just recovered before next time
and that hypothetically will grow you
the most muscle that you can grow
you can think through a lot of these
things and take notes and remember I
swear did I get and okay is that I go
how do I rate that sauna should I
increase my sets I before we made the
app I would do that all in my head and
I'm sure you guys do as well
if you use the RP
hypertrophy templates that we used to
have for sale then you know they ask you
sort of pump and soreness kind of all in
the same question the auto regulations
kind of clunky this this is the future
because the app asks you all the
questions and it does all the thinking
under the hood the app is your coach all
you do is rate honestly and it will crap
out a program it thinks is the best
program every single session and week it
updates for you to make it better for
you uh I don't want to put you find a
point on this I'm not sure it's exactly
true but no other app does this and by
the way without sounding too fucking
cocky and way out of my league which I
already am uh we kind of invented the
system at RP like nobody really pays
attention to sort of some bump the way
we do we were the first people to do it
we were the first to formalize it and
we're the only people that actually have
the inside track to be able to make
these algorithms work so you won't find
this anywhere else and if you do they
still are shit in a best of luck to them
I hope they have a great time in any
case honesty why is honesty so important
here because here's the thing
a lot of us are used to being coached by
other coaches uh sports teams growing up
you got a power lifting coach
bodybuilding coach Etc and there's this
weird dynamic that plays out especially
if you were coached as a child where you
kind of want to like impress the coach
or something like that and if you deal
with the app as a coach you kind of
start wanting to impress the app so when
it's like hey how pumped did you get
you're like oh I want more sets next
time so I'll just say I got a small pump
so it'll increase
I'll say how sore did you get you're
like oh man I don't want to do more of
this exercise so I'll say I got real
sore don't do that because it uses the
pumps and soreness to inform other
deeper algorithms that later in the
app's lifetime will allow it to surface
to you better ideas for exercises and
worse ideas for exercises sort them for
you so that you're more likely to pick
the better ones
fuck up the algorithm by pretending like
you're gonna fuck with the app somehow
and making a think whatever is just
going to cause a ton of nonsense it's
got you know garbage in garbage out and
you have no idea what's going on
you can always manually easily delete or
or add sets anytime you want
anytime you want no problem and there's
a separate workload feature which will
handle a bunch of the auto regulation
for you anyway as far as volume is
concerned so what you have to do is
answer as honestly as possible
period if you do that the app does its
best work in any case if you're not
using the app still want you to get a
ton of value out of this video just be
honest with yourself when you're doing
your own ratings don't be like either
more sore I get the better that's
bullshit you have to heal on time and
the more pumped you get the better
that's absolutely true but not if you're
going overboard and getting
psychotically fatigued for seemingly no
gains or if that pump is making your
soreness so bad that you won't heal on
time folks take care of yourselves next
time we're going to talk about how to
progressively overload your training
within the context of a training plan
and I'll see you guys then oh by the way
Link in the description to buy the app
make me some damn money I don't have a
lot of money around and I want more see
you next time