welcome to the house of hypertrophy what
happens if instead of training every
single week you take a complete training
break every few weeks does it boost
muscle and strength gains or does it
hurt and reduce your gains a brand new
study has examined this let's Dive In
[Music]
why could training breaks be beneficial
besides potentially lowering fatigue
some evidence suggests that as you train
week after week the antibiotic Pathways
that regulate muscle growth may become
desensitized and that taking a break
might be able to re-sensitize the
anabolic Pathways suggesting that
implementing breaks every so often could
lead to more muscle aperture over the
long term but this is just molecular
data this is where the new study comes
into play it's directly measured muscle
hypertrophy and strength gains 39
trained individuals with an average of
3.5 years of training experience were
assigned into a break or normal group
both groups train their upper and lower
body twice a week all the muscle growth
and strength measurements were done on
the lower body so we'll just focus on
the lower body training which heads
subjects during the Smith machine back
squat leg extension calf press and
seated calf raise with these variables
the normal group trained every single
week for nine weeks the break group
trained for four weeks completely rested
in the fifth week and then trained from
the 6th to the final ninth week the
before and after the study strength was
assessed by measuring their maximal
isometric leg extension strength and
Smith machine back score one rep max
muscle growth was assessed by measuring
rectus femoris and vastus lateralis
thickness at 30 50 and 70 of the lower
leg length as well as medial
gastrocnemius lateral gastrocnemius and
Soleus thickness at 25 of the lower leg
length it was ultimately found that by
the end of the study all muscle growth
measurements increased fairly similarly
between the break and normal groups as
for strength both groups increased
isometric leg extension strength and
Smith machine back squat owner MX but
the gains were slightly greater for the
normal group therefore this study
suggests taking a complete break from
training in the middle of nine weeks did
not reduce or increase muscle growth but
it did actually slightly reduce strength
gains
foreign
so this new study does not strictly
support the idea that training breaks
re-sensitize your anabolic Pathways and
thereby lead to Greater muscle growth
but I don't think this study completely
debunks the idea of resensitization
you'll see potentially why a little
later nevertheless there are different
ways you may interpret this data since
muscle growth was similar between both
groups you may be thinking that it's
pretty cool the brick groups or similar
gains despite training less more
precisely the one week break in the
middle of the nine weeks resulted in
them performing 40 fewer lower body sets
translating into 11 less work there's
also another study by Oka sawara that
you may be aware of if you followed the
house of hypertrophy for a while which
had one group train every week across 24
weeks and another group that throughout
the 24 weeks cycled between training for
six weeks and then completely resting
for three weeks chest and triceps growth
were similar between both groups by the
end of the study despite the fact that
break group trained 25 percent less
interestingly Benchmark strength gains
were also similar between the normal and
groups which somewhat conflicts with the
newer study nonetheless another
interpretation is that if you hate
training brakes the good news is this
new study and the ogre Saguaro one
indicates they aren't necessary for
seeing great gains and we even know
strength games were slightly lowered
with the breaks in the new study the
subjects of the new study also did not
seem to be fond of the breaks as they
reported feeling lethargic after the
break rather than refreshed ultimately
You may wish to just take breaks or
deloads whenever you feel your body and
or mind requires it as opposed to
scheduling them every certain number of
weeks speaking of deloads which in this
case I mean reducing your volume and or
intensity for a week as opposed to
stopping training completely it's not
clear if the findings of the new study
transfer to deloads
from a muscle building perspective
previous research has interestingly
found the molecular responses to
deloading and taking breaks were largely
similar but future research on Dilo
specifically are needed for hypertrophy
and presuming sooner or later we'll have
studies on this
if you're curious about further ideas
for creating an effective muscle
building program Alpha progression can
help you out it's got a flexible custom
workout generator that can tailor a
muscle building program to your needs
with training variables that are
grounded in various meta-analyzes and
reviews from the scientific literature
input your training experience the
equipment you have available if you want
to focus or neglect certain muscles how
often you want to train and for how long
if you prefer to have scheduled delos or
Paradise set numbers and Reps in reserve
those options are available too you can
still edit and individualize things to
your liking the flexibility is virtually
endless which is something I think is
truly special about the app the app also
has aesthetic graphs displaying a
long-term progression and there's a
database of over 550 exercises with
great text and video tutorials the link
in the comments and description gives
you a free two-week trial of all the
app's features and if you like it and go
beyond the link gives you 20 off a
subscription
foreign
[Music]
24 weeks chest and triceps growth were
similar between a normal empiric group
however you can actually see the normal
groups seemingly were nearing a plateau
whereas the break group gains
consistently rebounded at a fairly fast
rate after the breaks perhaps due to
being re-sensitized thus it's possible
that in a longer time frame the group
taking the breaks may have truly built
more muscle maybe this also applies to
the new study although over nine weeks
muscle growth was similar between the
normal and break groups if the study was
longer perhaps the normal group's growth
would net a plateau whereas the break
group if they were seeing some kind of
very small resensitization effects from
the brakes would ultimately experience
better hypertrophy for now this is very
much speculative it will be interesting
to see if future research provides us
with insights into whether this is true
or not
[Music]
this new study finds taking a complete
break in the middle of nine weeks did
not improve or hurt muscle growth but it
did slightly compromise strength gains
we've had other research by Oka sawara
comparably finding that across 24 weeks
taking a three-week break every six
weeks did not hurt or improve muscle
growth but in this particular ogosaurus
study strength gains were also not
compromised with a break your
interpretations and takeaways from this
data May differ depending on your point
of view but one clear takeaway from this
data is that breaks should not be fed we
know strength gains were reduced in the
newer study but the reduction in
strength was only small and we still
have the ogosaurus study finding
strength gains were not compromised by
taking training breaks so whether you
have to take an unexpected break or you
just like occasionally taking a break
this is perfectly fine more research is
needed on deloads where you reduce
volume and or intensity as well as if
training brakes or deloads have any
benefits in the very long term you can
be sure that if any new data comes along
we'll be covering it here at the house
of hypertrophy if if you're interested
in the breakdown of the science of how
often you should train a muscle feel
free to check out this video or if
you're interested in the science of rep
Rangers for hypertrophy feel free to
check out this video