[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to perform the
conventional deadlift with perfect
technique now there's going to be a good
chunk of overlap between this video in
my last video on the sumo deadlift just
because these two
deadlift variations are quite similar
but I wanted to make them separate
videos so that you guys can just watch
the video for the variation that you
want to use you know exactly how to do
it from start to finish now so first
you'll want to remember that the
biomechanics and muscle activation
patterns for the sumo and conventional
deadlift are actually quite similar with
the main difference being that sumo
deadlifts are harder on your quads and
conventional deadlifts are harder on
your spinal erectors now in terms of
setup the main difference between the
two is that the sumo deadlift will have
your hands inside your legs whereas the
conventional deadlift just gonna have
your hands outside your legs this is a
few important biomechanical implications
where we can see that the conventional
deadlift is a bit more hip dominant with
the torso leaning further forward
whereas the sumo deadlift has the hips
closer to the bar and a more upright
lifting posture but notice that in both
examples the knees aren't nearly as bent
as they would be in the bottom of a
squat so I think it's wrong to think of
the sumo deadlift is more of a squat
style deadlift because regardless of
what stance you take the deadlift is a
more hip dominant movement and in my
coaching experience I would say that on
average shorter lighter guys tend to be
a bit stronger with sumo the intolerant
end to be a bit better with conventional
but the only way to figure out which
variation is better for you is to give
both a solid shot learn the form over
time and give one a good honest effort
for one training cycle and come to your
own conclusion so like with the sumo
deadlift here we're performing
simultaneous hip extension and knee
extension where hip extension is handled
by the glutes and hamstrings and knee
extension is handled by the quadriceps
also the spinal erectors will be taxed
to a more significant degree with the
conventional deadlift as they perform a
stronger isometric spinal extension
contraction and in the lats and traps
will also be involved here again as they
isometric contractions to stabilize the
shoulder and the scapula and you should
load the deadlift just in general with
relatively heavy weight in a low rep
zone something around five to ten reps
if your main goal is hypertrophy and 1
to 5 reps if your main goal is size
since its capacity for overload is
extremely high and I wouldn't recommend
training the deadlift more than once or
twice a week even for advanced lifters
because it just is one of the most
physically and mentally draining
exercises out there and it does have a
pretty high recovery cost so you want to
lift in a flat-soled shoe like Chuck
Taylors or deadlift slippers use high
socks to avoid shin scrapes and a ten
millimeter lever belt to increase torso
rigidity and force transfer as you pull
now none of these things are required
per se they're just going to help out
with your performance on the lift you
want to stand where your shins are about
half an inch behind the bar with the bar
roughly centered over the tongue of your
shoes and in general you want to use a
stance slightly closer than
shoulder-width which is gonna minimize
the distance the bar has to travel and
prevent your hands from moving out too
wide just to stay outside your shins and
unlike the sumo deadlift there's no need
to flare your toes out your feet should
be pointing straight ahead so get down
to take your grip by setting your hips
and back as you would in a stiff leg
deadlift and once you can't get your
hips back any further allow your knees
to come forward slightly until your
shins make light contact with the bar
without knocking it forward you want to
grip the bar with your arms hanging
straight down right at shoulder width so
that when you grip the bar your hands
are just outside your shins again you
have the option of using an alternate or
over-under grip which will allow you to
pull more weight however it may lead to
imbalances if you don't periodically
alternate the overhand and the underhand
and even though the double overhand grip
is probably the safest it will also
limit your true strength potential
because your grip generally won't be as
strong this way now you also can give
the hook grip a shot how about wedging
your thumb between your fingers in the
bar but it does have a pretty painful
adjustment period and straps are also an
option so you can go double overhand and
avoid that alternate grip but I would
make sure that you do at least one
he said per workout without straps so
your raw grip strength doesn't suffer so
none of these grips are perfect but
personally I go with the alternate grip
so you want to dig the bar into the base
of your hand and you should drive your
pinky into the bar I'm just gonna
prevent and grip fatigue and once your
grip is set you want to pack your lats
by thinking about pulling the bar in
close to you which is gonna prevent the
bar from drifting out in front of you as
you lift now at this point you want to
pull your lower back into a neutral
position creating a stretch in your
hamstrings and you'll want to maintain
this flat lower back position throughout
the rest of the lift a little bit of
thoracic or upper back rounding is more
acceptable and less dangerous however if
you pull with a slightly rounded
thoracic spine
just don't allow it to round further
throughout the lift with your hips still
high and anteriorly tilted you want to
take a deep breath into your gut and at
this point you have the lift fully set
up and you're ready to initiate the pole
and exactly the same as with sumo you
should be able to draw a straight line
connecting your scapula the middle of
the bar in the middle of your foot at
this point you want to initiate the pole
by pulling the slack out of the bar so
it's slightly bends under your grip just
before the plates actually leave the
floor you don't want to grip and rip the
bar or you just immediately yank it up
because you'll come up solid against the
weight of the plates before they leave
the ground which can deplete energy and
throw you out of position as one quick
aside here I would say that in
powerlifting circles it's pretty common
knowledge that the sumo pole tends to be
slower off the ground while the
conventional pole tends to be fast off
the ground but tougher at lockout as for
this reason coaches will often encourage
lifters to be patient off the floor with
sumo as it can take longer for the
plates to actually get moving but she
can be more explosive off the ground
with conventional since you want to take
advantage of that sort of rubber band
effect off the floor and then carry that
momentum off the ground all the way up
to lock out so as soon as you've pulled
the slack out of the bar explode up with
the weight leading with your chest up
and similar to sumo you want to focus
mainly on driving your hips forward
while holding a isometric contraction in
your lumbar spine to prevent lower back
rounding in your shoulder blades to
prevent upper back rounding
at your shoulder to keep the bar in
tight against your legs the bar should
be moving up in a perfectly straight
line centered over in the middle of the
foot and it should be dragging straight
up against your shins finishing the
lockout tends to be the most difficult
part of the conventional pull because
the bar needs to travel a further
distance off the ground so to break
through the sticking point you want to
really force your hips forward and get
your chest up since often you'll need to
sort of unroll the upper back to get the
shoulders fully locked and at the top
you know you've truly locked the lift
out if your knees and hips are straight
and your chest is lifted up with your
shoulders slightly back no need to
overdo the lockout by leaning backward
excessively hyper extending your lower
back or squeezing your shoulder blades
together shrugging the weight up again
when it comes to the negative you can
either let the bar fall more freely with
your hands simply guiding it back into
position or you can slightly resist the
negative having the last for about one
second which is gonna ensure that the
plates land in the right spot is the bar
tracks back down against your legs and
you want to make sure you set your hips
back first then as the bar is clearing
the knees let the knees Bend and drop
the bar straight down because it moves
against your shins don't make the common
mistake of forcing the bar out in front
of you just to clear your knees on the
way down which will totally throw you
out of position with the conventional
pole in particular I would say it's
absolutely crucial that you set your
hips back first with straight knees just
like you would in a stiff leg deadlift
so you can maintain that perfectly
straight bar path centered over the
middle of the foot but the plates come
to a full and complete reset on the
ground after each rep without bouncing
the plates off the ground and then begin
the pull again by taking a deep breath
in
pulling the slack out of the bar driving
your hips forward locking the bar out
setting your hips back and following the
bar back down in a straight line so guys
that's all that I have for the
conventional deadlift if you didn't
catch the sumo deadlift tutorial from
last week
I really recommend giving that one to
watch as well so you can make sure
you've got both of these lifts mastered
and next week I'm gonna be covering all
the common errors with both of these
deadlift variations I want to make sure
you stay tuned for that and I've also
decided I'm gonna extend the sale on my
fundamentals and push-pull legs
hypertrophy programs that's
for the next week they're both going to
be $29.99 and then I'll go back to
$39.99 after that and I'll have both of
those links down in the description box
as well that's thank you so much guys
for watching the video I really
appreciate it
I don't forget to leave me a like if you
enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe so you don't miss future
technique Tuesday episodes and I'll see
you guys all here in the next one