hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization I'm coming at you
super hard coming at you hard that
didn't roll off the tongue like I
planned with a video about five rules
for fat loss cardio oh boy here we go
rule number one is to find your best sfr
modalities what does that mean science
man shut up and use American words
you want ways of doing cardio methods
that burn plenty of calories but don't
beat you up a ton and make you super
tired make your muscles sore and
fatigued and mess up your joints
which means the elliptical
or a longer distance swim or an inclined
walk or even just like a fast-paced walk
through the neighborhood or through a
park may be better more sustainable than
something like a lot of step mill or a
lot of Plyometrics and aerobics classes
where you're jumping around
for general fitness and health that
stuff is amazing but fat loss cardio
means you do it regularly for G 8 to 12
weeks on end if you do enough step
Milling your legs get so fatigued that
your leg workouts start to decline in
quality that you might lose some leg
muscle size or not gain as much if
you're jumping around hop skip into lots
of aerobics could beat up your joints
and you need to save your joints for the
lifting because that's where they really
come in so try to get a cardio modality
for you that burns plenty of calories
but doesn't beat the living crap out of
you that it's got to be sustainable
now
number two rule
is to take all of those cardio
modalities the ways of doing cardio's
elliptical incline walks swim Etc and do
the ones most often that you enjoy the
most and I know it sounds kind of lame
and weird like I just want to lose fat
forget enjoyment well hold on a second
if you enjoy cardio it's less stress
overall to your day and stress is a huge
fatigue booster and motivation killer if
you have cardio that you absolutely hate
it's just like planning to fail after
seven weeks of fat loss you're like I
quit and everyone at work's like oh no
why like I just had done enough cardio
to where I don't ever want to do cardio
ever again I've retired from cardio but
if you have a cardio modality let's say
playing basketball with your friends or
uh you know having friends at all in my
case then if you like that or let's say
you put on a sweet podcast and go to the
gym and just incline walk if you like
the cardio or at least hate it the least
you're more likely to receive less
stress from it you're more likely to be
adherent and actually do it and then
it's all good things all the way down of
course you want to keep your sfr high
still so if you really love the stair
Mill but it really messes up your legs
and screws up your leg workouts there's
some yin and yang there which goes to
point number three
in general to the extent that you can
slash like
uses many diverse modalities of cardios
even within a single week not as you can
but is preferred to you A lot of people
think cardio is only going to the gym
ratcheting up the treadmill and incline
walking for 45 minutes looking at the
wall in front of them and just suffering
what you could be doing is doing a
little bit of swimming getting on the
bike doing a bit of jogging unless
you're a contest bodybuilder it's okay
to do some jogging for cardio you're not
going to lose your leg muscle completely
off your body in most cases you've
you've got a ton of different options
you can join a rec league for basketball
or something and all of a sudden tons of
different types of cardio means that
they're never really boring they're
always fun also you can't really wear
out a single part of your body if your
cardio always changes you don't wear and
tear that stuff if you do only ever the
elliptical at some point your shoulder
starts hurting the elliptical hurts it
like either stop doing cardio or you
hurt a shoulder more but if you have a
swim programmed in there maybe some
bicycle work then you can keep doing
cardio and lay off the shoulder for a
bit and then voila you're well off and
while you're waiting before you smart
Alex get in the comments let's say
you're swimming use the shoulders I'm
talking about that where you get
the floaty thing Scott video guy you
know what I'm talking about they're the
it's a little floaty thing they use in
swim we just paddle with your legs but
the paddle board
it's exactly named what it is
am I the stupidest person in the world
at least bottom five
next up Rule Number Four
you have to understand the limits of
cardio in most cases much more than 45
minutes to an hour of cardio
six-ish days a week
is the most a living human being can do
without starting to really cause a lot
of muscle loss and or just starting to
cause a lot of fatigue from the sheer
boredom and having to drive to the gym
and all this other crazy stuff
cardio
in a proper Fat Loss plan just gets you
burning a little bit more calories than
you on average would during maintenance
and then the diet reduction in food
creates most of that deficit what you
don't want to do is eat the same amount
of food as normal and really Crank That
cardio like crazy the fatigue is just
overwhelming it's not sustainable so
make sure you don't do too much cardio
45 minutes an hour a days mostly the top
end on average for people there's
definitely exceptions to that but then
the deficit should come from you
cranking your fats and carbs down a
little bit in most cases that's the best
approach for long-term fat loss
lastly
if you do too much cardio what ends up
happening is your body can make some
adjustments where it reduces your
non-exercise expenditure and not
exercise activity thermogenesis is the
technical term it means like you your
body's like holy crap I'm burning way
too many calories I'm not eating enough
let's slow everything down so like if
you're sitting in a chair and the
remotes over there you normally just get
up and get it yourself but what if your
kids runs over you're like hey hey Billy
Bob that's your kid's name give me that
remote son why aren't you getting it
there's no your legs aren't broken
you're totally fine it's because your
body's kind of secretly whispering in
your ear like hey stay still you're
starving to death and way moving too
much what ends up happening is during
the average day you're expenditure in
total because tons of calories are
burned I believe they're not with just
normal daily stuff if you start doing
less normal daily stuff you can be doing
lots of cardio and 90 of that cardio
just replaces the daily stuff you're not
doing anymore that's terrible so rule
number five is consider getting yourself
a step tracker this one was made by The
People's communist Chinese public of
China or something and it tracks my
identity and location is linked to my
Tick Tock just kidding it's like 20
bucks you can have an iPhone watch
whatever that's just called Apple watch
ton of Step trackers available even the
super cheap ones this is like the cheap
one cheapest one they have and it works
great I just pack my steps and you can
too and anything between
ten thousand and twelve thousand steps a
day is a good place to start on a cardio
plan just never let it go below that you
can go to the gym and do cardio it
records that or you can just walk around
the block walk your dogs walk over to
your neighbor's house spy on them like
you always do and it records everything
as far as steps so if you're every day
getting at least 10 000 steps that like
mild burning of fat is always happening
and if you engineer your caloric deficit
just underneath that you just
consistently burn fat this means also
that you get tons of stuff done so for
example if you have a cardio session
later and you have to go grocery
shopping for your family
damn I have a lot of to do this
sucks but if you have a step tracker you
just go grocery shopping and 3 000 steps
later you're like holy crap I'm almost
done with my cardio take a couple walks
around the block and you're done what a
snap tracker does is it kind of Records
all of your meaningful physical activity
throughout the day sums it up so that
that problem of your physical activity
dropping to make up for cardio just
can't happen anymore as long as you hit
your minimum 10 to 12K then you're good
to go some people 8K is enough other
people like to do 14k plus 10 to 12 is
somewhere you can start and go from
there folks thank you so much for tuning
in like subscribe do all that good stuff
and uh you know smile extra at someone
especially when they don't expect it
like when you uh get out you know for
your Uber ride later today you don't pay
the Uber driver the app does that right
so they're like here here you go here's
your destination you just go hey hey and
they turn on you go
just like that see you guys next time