[Music]
oh 4: a.m. Club let's get it only 400
[Music]
a.m. oh uh we didn't even put the ice in
can you see the
steam
no as you can see the budget for these
videos is not very high but pretend I'm
in a sauna and I'm sweating with a
t-shirt on for some reason
oh didn't see you there you're probably
thinking is this another silly sketch no
it turns out that it's not cuz you know
I'm actually just resting and resting is
really good for Recovery who would have
thought right recovery method shck take
Anda good old recovery arguably one of
the simplest things in the world of
making gains eat plenty of Whole Foods
eat plenty of protein
sleep at least 6 to 8 hours go for a
walk and don't train like an absolute
[ __ ] but no you can't sell a bottle
that says just sleep bro don't be a
child go to bed and make sure you get a
good night's sleep because you're
training very hard that's not possible
and that's where the problem lies from
cold water immersion to CBD cryotherapy
sprays and butters that you're rubbing
over your joints where even intuitively
that doesn't really make sense in terms
of how it works and how it's effective
all the way to compression garments foam
rolling and sports massage I can name a
lot people want and are actively looking
for the latest recovery optimization
method and tool that will help them
perform so much better however they
often do so well forgetting the basic P
pillars of recovery food sleep load and
Stress Management sure if you're a top
level Elite athlete or even just
somebody who is a competitive athlete
and lives for their sport trying to find
that extra thing that can give you a
small boost in performance that for you
is Meaningful makes sense don't get me
wrong especially if all the basics are
covered but if you're just some guy or
girl who's simply trying to get fitter
bigger stronger whatever in my humble
opinion you should not be spending a
significant amount of either money or
time looking for the next best thing to
really boost your recovery and you can
spend that time more productively doing
just the basics I know your netw worth
is your net worth and showing up for #
Bulletproof Coffee with your friends and
saying how much you're prioritizing
sleep and food is not as sexy as
whipping out the latest tool and
Recovery or showing them the latest
graph on your phone using this app that
somehow helps you you manage recovery
better I know it's not that sexy if we
look at the current scientific data
around most commercially available
recovery methods especially the ones
that are very famous and people swear
by data is not looking that great sure
there are some things that you can do
that will help you be less sore the next
day and have their place especially if
you're a competitive athlete um other
things that may slightly boost
performance at least in some cases for
example power output but there are also
cases where overdoing it with some of
these recovery methods for example with
cold water immersion directly post
workout can actually have a negative
effect on your gains the totality of
current available scientific evidence is
not really pointing at anything being
magical when it comes to recovery and
it's sure as hell is not showing
anything being able to replace the basic
pillars of recovery so yeah
don't get me wrong I enjoy the
occasional sport massage um especially
when there's a happy ending included
thank you Sean and I will also entertain
new supplements or methods that come out
I will read about them and see if
they're worth a hassle however even
though I enjoy being physically pressed
down by another man for 2 hours and it's
very relaxing and it has me feeling
recovered after I am well aware that it
is likely not playing a huge role in my
overall recovery and it is a tiny tiny
tiny piece of the puzzle um if that even
though the massage itself will probably
not make or break my performance or
muscle growth potential over the long
term it does feel nice to be pounded by
another man straight for two hours I
know the same joke twice this is what
you get on this YouTube channel don't
forget to subscribe like Bell icon
notification and so on and so forth to
get the same jokes over and over again
the goal here is to build a bank of
repeated jokes over time so that you can
go back 10 years in 10 years and be like
wo he used to say the same jokes back in
2023 it's 2033 now my apologies I
digress # ADHD I recognize that me
getting a sports massage is just a way
for me to relax may have some uh benefit
as well but it's going to be a
relatively small benefit as far as my
recovery goes but the majority of people
I think fail to realize the really
powerful effect the really powerful
placebo effect that comes with a lot of
these recovery methods especially when
advertised by their favorite athletes
influencers and so on and so forth and I
do blame the world of biohacking and
optimization quite a bit for that a
world of
cringe don't get me wrong I'm talking
about optimization and this idea that
everything you do has to be optimal even
though you're not an elite athlete aete
or a competitive athlete for that matter
while also not understanding that
optimal exists on a spectrum and it's
not a constant state the world of
optimization is a world of buzzwords
unnecessary complexity added on top of
things with a Sprinkle of get a
personality already bro on top of the
whole the whole act you're doing all
that just to end up averaging less than
6 hours of sleep per week which you see
on your latest watch or ring or whatever
you're wearing to tell you whether you
feel good or not because hey just
feeling good and being like I feel well
rested yeah I'm going to go train hard
doesn't seem to cut it anymore but pack
I hear you saying it's very hard with my
lifestyle and how busy I am to always
prioritize sleep or eat enough well I'm
not going to be the guy who will say
just make sure you do it cuz that's one
way to approach this saying bro if
you're serious about it you'll find a
way to eat and you'll find a way to
somewhat make up for lost sleep either
by napping or whatever however that's
not the angle I'm going to take here
because I get it sleep can be very
tricky either because you have a family
or a very busy job or you're on that
grind or both I get it I totally get it
and I understand that sometimes recovery
won't be optimal I also get how it makes
sense intuitively at least to think cool
I'm not able to absolutely optimize my
sleep or energy intake might as well
take that supplement do
whatever foam rolling sports massage
whatever just to try and fill that Gap
in the best way that I can that said
though a mistake that a lot of people
make is that they treat that Gap as
something that can be easily filled by
using alternative recovery methods and
they continue approaching their training
as if they're recovering optimally
however a lot of these people fail to
realize that the Gap that they've left
with not eating enough or not sleeping
enough cannot simply be filled by any
alternative recovery method and more
importantly they need to adjust their
training accordingly but then they
approach their training intensity volume
and so on and so forth as if they're
recovering optimally don't get me wrong
I get it we all have lives here there's
going to be weeks and even months where
recovery will be suboptimal and you can
definitely still make gains even if
you're sleep and your food are not
always on point however what's important
is to adjust your training accordingly
and do not let these fancy recovery
methods and tools fool you fool you
there's no conspiracy theory here but
fool you into thinking that you can
still train as hard as you did before
when everything else when the basics
were in place the next time you see any
new recovery methods out there or you
read about this new recovery supplement
or how to absolutely maximize recovery
doing a specific recovery drill or foam
rolling routine ask ask yourself am I
focusing on the wrong thing here what
about the absolute Basics if those are
in check and you feel like you may get
something out of entertaining any sort
of recovery method be my guest do it
play around with it but always keep in
mind that is just a very very very small
piece of your recovery puzzle
PS and PS stands for public service
announcement the a is silent um just
kidding am I I know what PS stands for
public series announcement if there's
ever anything that is absolutely magical
and gamechanging as far as recovery goes
you will find out about it and next time
somebody tries to sell you something
that you've never heard before or seems
to be somewhat questionable and they're
promising that it is the next best thing
they're likely just the as don't forget
to like subscribe notifications Bell
print a picture of me and stick it on
your door and every day you go to work
look at it and say wow I really don't
want to be like this guy and have that
be the driving force for your day so
that you can do better so that you can
make more money buy more cars buy more
watches CU at the end of the day who
cares about anything else it's all about
material possessions and more
specifically watches if there are any
watch Geeks watching this channel
comment below your favorite diver watch
below $10,000 and I'll hit you up with a
reply I'm not replying to anything else
I don't want to hear questions about
Sport Science muscle growth who cares
it's all about material things anyways
too long of an outro cameraman is
yawning
[Music]
peace