a lot of intermediates want to pretend
they're Advanced people and what they do
is they try to get really crazy on the
Mind muscle connection and they pick
exercises like yeah man I can really
feel my LS Contracting and someone's
like have you been getting stronger on
this exercise over time and they're like
it's not about how much weight you lift
man it's about how much tension the
muscle feels thanks Frank Zayn but on a
serious note in order to even qualify
for the Mind muscle connection to be
validly used you have to learn how to
train hard and if you skip to the Mind
muscle connection without learning how
to train hard all this of like
I feel my lat no no no no you feel your
lat Contracting that's not theing Point
you're supposed to feel your lat with a
shitload of metabolites in it or an
unreal degree of tension pulling it
apart every single way that's my muscle