here's what I think is the most
effective PEC popping deltoid
destruction Army Annihilation push day
I've ever designed using scientific
principles welcome back Dr mil wolf here
today PhD in sport Science with wolf
coaching nonfunctional sign but we stay
working we stay paying those bills until
I can finally afford to get it fixed
while the sign isn't fixed yet I'm going
to fix your mess of a push you see some
commenters have been saying stop
repeating the same thing every single
time you explain how to structure a
perfect push day a perfect PLL day or
what have
you just
stop just stop
it stop no just stop it to that I say I
would but you keep making the same
mistakes I see your programming I see
your train and I can tell you it's not
ideal it can be improved and here's what
a good push day is designed to fit
within your program the best push day
doesn't do a thing if you do it once
every 2 weeks or if you do it every day
sorry Dr pack but I do think you still
need to train your legs so this perfect
push day is designed to be repeated
twice a week with some minor
modification this push day will have a
slight chest emphasis the second push
dat should have a slight triceps or
shoulder emphasis to kind of balance
things out alternatively you could just
create two push sessions that both
similarly emphasize the chest triceps
bels itself importantly within your push
pull legs routine your push days will
generally be the easiest then your pull
days are hardish and your leg days are
difficult so if there are any muscle
groups you're not quite sure whether you
should fit them into a pull day or push
day I would generally recommend to fit
them within your push day after all your
push sessions just tend to be easier so
that's where you can add more stuff
without it necessarily becoming a Super
difficult session a homework of any good
training session for hypertrophy is that
it limits redundancy the reason that low
volume programs can actually work
reasonably well for hypertrophy is
because your first few sets in a given
training session or a given training
week have the biggest impact on
hypertrophy then as you add more and
more volume you get diminishing returns
in how much hypertrophy that causes So
within a given training session we don't
just want to Target one muscle group
because we get diminishing returns on
each additional set for that one muscle
that's partly why body part splits
probably aren't ideal for hopy the main
thing is that we don't want to do a ton
of work for just one or two muscles at
the expense of other muscle groups for
example doing the barbell bench press
followed by the flat dumbbell press
Follow by some sort of flat chest press
it's going to be great for your lower
chest but what about your triceps the
long head for example or your front
delts or even your upper chest those
aren't really being targeted that well
so we want to limit redundancy in terms
of the exercise selection next we want
to make sure we're using maximally
effective rep ranges here's the deal for
hypertrophy based on a paper by sh fing
colleagues the maximally effective rep
range for muscle building is between
five reps per set and 50 reps per set
however we'll be mostly sticking to sets
of 5 to 15 Reps for practicality reasons
based on some of the research I've been
involved in it turns out most people are
accurate at gauging how close to failure
they are when they're working between 5
and 12 Reps for the most part once you
go above this people become less
accurate that being said there is
potentially a benefit to be had in terms
of overall muscle growth by combining
different rep ranges for most muscle
groups most training weeks and so we
won't just stick in the 5 to 12 or 5 to
15 rep range we'll also include some
higher rep work and finally we'll make
sure to match the right rep range to the
right exercise let's say you want to
train your front delts and today was
your light day for front belts meaning
you were doing High Reps if you were
about to do sets of 20 to 30 reps on
standing barbell overhead press you may
not have a great time other muscle
groups may give out first you may it so
out of breath that you end the set
prematurely your front outs aren't
getting the best stimul and so matching
the right rep range to the right
exercise is another thing we'll be
focusing on next we'll make sure to use
a maximally effective volume because
this push session is designed to be
repeated twice a week within a 6-day
push pull legs approach we'll try to aim
for 5 to 15 sets per muscle per session
here so that then when repeated twice a
week we get to a range of around 10 to
30 sets per week per muscle while 10 to
20 sets per week per muscle is a great
place to grow there is some research we
now have eight studies comparing volumes
of over 20 sets per week per muscle to
volumes of under 20 sets per week per
muscle showing that there might be a
benefit to going over 20 sets per week
per muscle it's probably not a huge
benefit as four Studies have found
broadly no difference and four Studies
have found a benefit but it's worth
considering if we're maximizing that
their hypertrophy next we'll want to
train sufficiently close to failure to
maximize hypertrophy there's a few
things this means one a meta regression
by Robinson and colleagues found that
the closer a set was taken the failure
the more hypertrophy it caused all else
being equal however training too close
to failure can cause more fatigue a
recent study by ra fallowing colleagues
for example compared training to one to
two reps in reserve to training all the
way to failure and even after 8 weeks of
training all the way to failure training
to failure still caused a greater drop
off in repetition performance from set
one to the last set so it seems that
training to failure does cause more
fatigue and so I think we should Reserve
training to failure for the last set of
an exercise that way we get to maintain
performance to a greater extent but also
get the benefit of training pretty close
to failure and even two failure for that
last set basically Reserve failure or
training super close to failure for when
it won't harm you on the last exercise
for a muscle group on a given day and on
the last set for that exercise generally
next we'll want to pick maximumly
effective exercises for each muscle
group there's a few things that go into
this and I have a whole series on the
topic you can check out somewhere above
but there's a few things to look out for
first the exercises we pick need to
Target one of the primary functions of
the target muscle for our push day
that's going to be a few functions
shoulder horizontal adduction for the
pecs shoulder abduction for the side
belts shoulder flexion for the front
belts and elbow extension for the
triceps next the target muscle should be
the limiting factor the only study we
have on chest growth is a study by
chavas and colleagues have compared a
45° Smith machine press to a flat Smith
machine press finding greater upper
chest growth from the 45° incline chest
press compared to the flat chest press
and when it came to the lower chest
there were no difference suggesting that
all us being equal the incline press is
a slightly better allaround chest
exercise compared to the flat press next
the exercises we pick should be stretch
friendly AKA put the toret muscle into
its stretch position have sufficient
tension in that position and be lengthen
partial friendly we have a few studies
in the triceps specifically a study by
Gooding colleagues looking at the school
Crusher a study by mying colleagues
looking at the pushdown which is the
overhead extension and a second study by
stas nakaki and colleagues also looking
at the push down overhead extension
these three Studies by and large do
support the idea that training at longer
muscle lengths is likely beneficial for
building the triceps for example and
finally where possible we'll want to
minimize involvement of other muscle
groups and spinal loading if we can sit
down or lie down as opposed to standing
probably a good thing reduces the
involvement of stabilizing muscle groups
reduces potential fatigue and makes sure
the target muscle is more likely to be a
limiting factor if you're someone who's
pressed for time you may also want to
consider how time efficient the exercise
is dumbbell and stoed machine are
generally more time efficient than
barbells next we'll want to pick
maximally effective rest times between
each set a recently pre-printed metth
analysis by singring colleagues that I
was actually a co-author on and
extracted all the studies data for
suggests that between 60 to 120 seconds
of rest between sets is very effective
and in fact might be maximally effective
so when it comes to training for push
days I would say that around 60 seconds
of rest between isolation movement sets
and around 20 seconds of rest between
compound pushing exercises is going to
be great next we want to pick a really
effective exercise order now that you
have your exercises together how many
reps you're doing how long you're
resting between sets we want to make
sure we order the exercises in the best
way possible now the impact of exercise
order on hypertrophy is unlikely to be
all that large in fact a metanalysis by
nunas and colleagues found no effect
essentially of excise order on
hypertrophy however fortunately for us
there is a study on the effect of
exercise order within a push session on
hypertrophy and that's a study by Rowan
colleagues where they compared a variety
of things but one of the things they
looked at was the effect of either
starting with a bench followed by the
school Crusher or starting with a school
Crusher followed by the bench and when
measuring hypertrophy of the triceps and
the pec muscle they generally found
notably better PEC growth from starting
with a bench followed by the school
Crusher and actually marginally better
tricep growth with the same exercise
order of starting with the compound
movement followed by the ice isolation
movement and in general although it
probably doesn't play a huge role there
are a few principles I like to follow
with excise order specifically store
with compound movements first and then
isolation movements generally order
exercises in a way that maximizes
performance across the session if you
start with school Crushers and you find
your bench press takes a huge hit but
the other way around school Crushers
don't take a hit that second order is
likely beneficial and finally if there
are any muscle groups you really want to
bring up in terms of hypertrophy you may
want to start with them earlier in the
session when you're freshest and are
able to give them the most attention the
final factor that goes into a really
effective push day or any session really
is good technique on all exercises our
recent narrative review paper on this
identified three things from the
evidence to focus on first Tempo there's
kind of a sweet spot between around 2
seconds per rep and around 8 seconds per
rep that will maximize hypertrophy based
on much less data there might be a case
to be made for controlling the Ecentric
for about 1 to 2 seconds at least and
being a bit more explosive on the con
Centric or lifting phase additionally we
might want to control the Ecentric and
pause a bit more in that stretch
position and that brings me to range of
motion the main thing to focus on as far
as range of motion during a movement for
hypertrophy is to emphasize and include
the stretch position whether you do that
by doing 4 in of motion or length in
partials probably doesn't matter a huge
amount but some evidence suggests that
length and partials might lead to more
growth compared to 4 in of motion and
finally minimizing Body English or the
involvement of other muscle groups by
involving other muscle groups and
cheating the weight up on any exercise
you're potentially causing greater
fatigue in stabilizing muscle groups
reducing the likelihood of the target
muscle being a limiting factor and
therefore theoretically although we
don't have any direct studies on this it
probably reduces hypertrophy stimulus
all right big science man I hear you
saying I've heard this a few times
before and while you've told me about
cool new studies and really this video
was just a thinly disguised vehicle for
you to teach me about science what about
the push day give me the push day you
 without further Ado here is the
ultimate push day with a slight chest
Buss first we'll start with an incline
press variation to Target the upper
chest specifically but also just give
you a good front Del stimulus and a good
lower chest stimulus and a good tricep
stimulus for your lateral and medial
head you could do the 45° incline lumbo
press you could use the Smith machine
instead with the same incline you could
use a camera board or you could even use
any nice incline press machine you have
a few options here but I think you
should perform 3 to five sets of 5 to 10
reps with about 90 seconds of rest
taking the first set to three Upson
reserve and the last set to one rep
Reserve which of these exercises should
you pick specifically in my opinion pick
whichever variation allows you to get
the best stretch if you have a prime
incline press machine that can be
phenomenal if you find you're able to
get a full stretch even just with an
inclin dumbbell press then that's a
totally fine option as well and it's
super time efficient but because all of
the exercises I mentioned do a pretty
good job as far as hypertrophy goes the
one differentiating factor might be how
much of a stretch they get you so pay
attention to that and if for example
you're more pressed for time consider
the inand dbo press as your primary
option given it's a bit more time
efficient alternatively if you want to
turn this into a super time efficient
but really effective session stay tuned
I would recommend picking the incl numo
press or the incline Smith machine press
now that we've really effectively
targeted the upper PEC let's move on to
the lower PEC to preferentially Target
the lower PEC I would do some sort of
flat pressing variation perform three to
five sets of 10 to 20 reps on the
deficit push-up the flat dmill press or
the flat Smith machine press take the
first set to about two reps in reserve
and the last set all the way to failure
rest for about 90 seconds between sets
given this is a compound movement as far
as which of these movements will give
you the best stretch and potentially
give you the most hypertrophy that would
be the deficit push-up and doing it
second after a heavier incline press
allows you to be somewhat fatigued and
potentially do this for a reasonable rep
range of 10 to 20 however if you can
still get a great stretch with a flat
dumbbell press or a flat Smith machine
press those can be great options because
you're moving from incline dumbbell
press to Flat dumbbell press or from
incline Smith machine press to Flat
Smith machine press you don't even need
to change equipment to get a really
robust training stimulus now that we've
trained both the upper chest and lower
chest very effectively let's move on to
an exercise for front dots there are a
few options here the ones I recommend
are the seated dumbbell overhead press
the seated Smith machine overhead press
or the machine seated overhead press
perform these for 2 to four sets for 10
to 20 reps with 90 seconds of rest
between sets taking the first set to
about but TR rep up from failure and the
last set all the way to failure you'll
notice all these exercises have you
sitting down removing some of the
fatigue that could come from standing
during overhead pressing the seated
dumble overhead press is all around
great and can be a nice sequence moving
from incline press to Flat press to
seated dumbbell overhead press which
means that you essentially don't need to
move around the gym at all it can be
really time efficient likewise the same
goes for the Smith machine seated
overhead press if you've been doing the
incline Smith machine press and the flat
Smith machine press alternatively if you
just want a really quick plug-and playay
option the seated machine overhead press
can be great as well and here's a secret
for you the dip is also a pretty solid
front delt exercise by having your
shoulder all the way behind you getting
your shoulder to deep extension you're
stretching out the front delt to a great
extent so if you want to do some dips
you can do some dips here as well next
we'll follow this up with the dumbbell
fly to really finish off the chest I
told you this session would have a peck
emphasis two to four sets of 20 to 30
reps to kind of finish out that
repetition range variation because this
is an isolation exercise just 60 seconds
of rest between sets will be sufficient
take the first set to about two reps
from failure and the last set all the
way to failure the dumo fly is maybe the
most stretch heavy lift ever of any
exercise I can think of in additionally
if you were doing the inkl dumbell press
then the flat dumbbell press then the
seated dumbbell overhead press now
you're doing dumbbell flies you hadn't
had to move once this is time efficiency
baby alternatively if you're literally
made of time and you're your grind set
is negative and I don't relate to you
whatsoever you could do like a seated
machine fly or a cable seated fly both
of those are fine but you know you could
be grinding instead with all that time
you just saved or could have saved next
we'll move on to an exercise to hit the
triceps while some heads of the triceps
get a decent stimulus from compound
pressing movements as evidenced by a
brandow study you do want to include
some isolation work to maximize
hypertrophy specifically for the long
head of the triceps since the long head
is B articular just doing compound
pressing probably won't get us the best
grow in that head and so I recommend
doing the dumbbell or cable overhead
extension for 3 to five sets of 10 to 20
reps with about 60 seconds of rest
between sets again isolation movement
take the first set to about two reps in
reserve and the last set all the way to
failure this is your last tricep
exercise for today so you may as well go
hand why the dumbb on the cable well for
one the barbell overhead extension tends
to be a little bit with people's
joints in my experience you can try it
it feels great for you keep doing it but
in my experience as a coach some people
don't like it the dumbbell is a great
option for time efficiency you can train
both at once pretty easily and it's a
great sequence yet again you're going
from dumble exercise to dumble exercise
to dumble exercise the cable is great
too but it can be a bit awkward to get
into position if you're getting
relatively heavy and doing it
bilaterally you could fix this by just
doing it single arm my main tip for this
exercise is to use the queue point the
elbows at the ceiling this will both
increase the stretch on your long head
of the triceps by keeping your shoulders
in full flexion but it will also prevent
you from turning the movement into a
strange behind the neck press just so
you can lift more weight and impress
your Bros and finally to finish off the
the session will include a side delt
exercise you could put this on a pull
leg put it on a push day or you could
just never do it but if you're going to
do it I think you should do it on a push
day because it's the easiest day and
that's where it makes sense to include
more stuff I'd recommend doing the cable
ladder arrays for 3 to five sets of 10
to 20 reps with around 60 seconds of
rest between sets taking the first set
two reps in reserve and the last set all
the way to failure for your last
exercise within the session compared to
a dumbbell lateral raise the cable
allows you to get more of a stretch by
having your arm come ACR across your
body it also allows you to place more
tension in that position by having the
cable be orthogonal to a line of pole
alternatively you could do a machine
lateral raise or a flat dumbbell side
raise you could literally do this whole
push day with just a bench and some
dumbbells start with the incline
dumbbell press move into the flat
dumbbell press move into the seated
dumbbell overhead press move into the
dumbbell fly then move into the dumbbell
overhead extension and finally do a flat
dumbbell side raise and congratulations
are you in a busy gym you're that guy
now you're the guy everyone hates you're
using one bench for the whole session
but while the masses May hate you you
just saved so much time and hey if
people want to walk in just tell them
they can walk in let's quickly go
through a checklist and make sure this
session is fire first we limited
redundancy by including a variety of rep
ranges especially for the chest which is
the main emphasis in the session we
trained every muscle group that we're
trying to train pretty effectively with
at least one or two exercises per we
include maximally effective rep ranges
on a variety of exercises having some
variation there but focusing more so on
the heavier rep ranges this session can
get you a comfortable 10 to 15 sets for
your chest and 5 to 10 sets or so for
most of your other muscle groups we
picked super effective exercises that
also happen to sequence from one to the
next very well we used maximally
effective rest times slightly longer for
compound movements slightly shorter for
isolation movements we generally start
it with the chest walk which is the
emphasis for the session but we also
started with the more compound based
movements than moving with isolation
movements and finally we used good
technique on all EX sizes that is the
video give this pushy a try if you
enjoyed the video leave a like comment
subscribe help me finally turn the sign
back on it's been all for weeks now and
I need the money to be able to fix it so
please like the video check my social
bleed we both know I'm not missing Bank
over here okay in fact if you'd like to
help me make Bank instead check out myod
app.com it's a training app we've been
working on for years that is essentially
aiming to be like a coach in your pocket
my adap also allows you to select which
routine you like the follow and builds a
completely individualized program based
on that you want to do push pull legs
guess what myap can do that you want to
do a push pull legs but training 5 days
a week or 4 days a week sort of
asynchronously it can do that too it's
smarter than I am to be honest with you
it uses all the most Cutting Edge Sport
Science to deliver the most effective
hypertrophy programming you can find on
the market today except not today but in
a few months when it comes out but by
signing up to the email newsletter there
you'll be notified when it gets released
and you'll be able to sign up for a much
lower price than anyone else
alternatively if you'd like me to coach
you check out the link above and I can
become your coach anyways have a
fantastic day and I'll see you next time
peace out from Wolf coaching HQ bye