stop messing up your lateral race
technique I see far too many people mess
up keeping their shoulders Pebble sized
as opposed to Boulder
shouldered welcome back Dr me wolf with
you today PhD in sports science breaking
down the optimal technique for building
bigger shoulders with lateral raises now
you might ask who am I to speak on this
well I've got a couple things on the
average viewer first I can overhead
press two plates which by YouTube
standards is all that really matters how
Jacked are you and how strong are you
second I was actually one of the authors
on the most recent review paper on
training technique for maximizing muscle
building we looked at all the evidence
on different components of technique to
establish what might be a good idea when
it comes to maximizing how much muscle
you build what technique should you be
using well we identified three to four
main components of good technique based
on the available evidence here's what
they are first Tempo with Tempo you can
both go too fast but also go too slow on
the too fast end of the spectrum if your
reps take much less than about a second
or two per rep on average you might be
reducing hypertrophy specifically if you
have no e Center control or no control
whatsoever on the lowering phase that
may not be ideal for hypertrophy no
one's going to hand you a trophy for
lateral raising the hundreds with
terrible Tempo is it impressive yes does
anyone care No so at the bottom end
taking at least a second or maybe two
for most repetition is a good idea
however you can also go too slow if you
go much above 8 8 seconds per repetition
you start reducing how much hypertrophy
you see as well now this is relatively
uncommon for lateral raises most people
doing lateral raises tend to go way too
fast more than anything but it's worth
keeping in mind that if your repetitions
take more than about 8 seconds per rep
you may want to speed up 8 seconds might
not be a lot for certain things but it
is a lot when it comes to lifting so
anywhere between about 2 seconds to 8
seconds per repetition seems to be quite
effective based on some more recent
preliminary data you may also want to
have a slightly longer Ecentric f pH and
a slightly more explosive concentric
phase or essentially control the
lowering phase a bit more and be
explosive on the lifting phase aiming
for at least a 1 to 2 second Ecentric
and an explosive concentric is a great
idea finally when it comes to Tempo we
can also modify it slightly to
accentuate the length and position
something we'll come back to in just a
moment another important aspect of
Technique we identified in our review
paper is range of motion and there's a
few things we found first that Peak
contraction position doesn't seem to
really contribute to hypertrophy very
much overall instead the stretch
position of the movement appears the
most important and so when it comes to
range of motion we at the very least
don't want to skimp on that stretch
position so at least use a full range of
motion or based on some more recent data
you could even try doing length and
partials or essentially half reps in a
stretched position of a movement there
are five studies now comparing length
and partials to a full range of motion
with four studies finding more
hypertrophy from length and partials and
one finding no difference importantly
none of these studies were in the
shoulders and there are still some
questions to be answered but assuming
this is a generalizable principle which
it appears to be there may be a point to
trying some lengthen partials in your
program for your shoulder train if
nothing else it'll let you lift more
weight and impress everyone on the
latter rise that means not going all the
way up necessarily while Dr Mike is Ral
of Renaissance peration has popularized
the use of the super ROM lateral race
where you go all the way up to over your
head I'm not sure I would recommend this
instead especially if you're going for
length and partials try coming up to
only about 45 to 90Â° by doing this
you'll be focusing a bit more on the
stretch position while the dumbbell lat
raise might not be the most lengthen
biased movement ever and there are
likely better exercises I have a whole
video in my hair there's a couple of
ways we can accentuate that stretch
position a bit more first as I mentioned
earlier as far as the tempo goes try
being explosive at the bottom of a rep
while the amount of force you need to
produce to just get past the bottom
position isn't very large if you try to
be explosive and accelerate the weight
as much as possible you'll be producing
more tension in a relatively lengthen
position second if you don't want to do
lengthen partials you can try doing a
lengthen superet in a lengthen super set
you just do full range of motion
repetitions until you can't get another
full rep and then instead of ending the
set you extend the set just doing
lengthen partials we now have one study
that is unpublished because we haven't
finished writing it up yet but as a view
of wolf coaching you get the early scoop
where in the calves we compared just
doing full range of motion reps to doing
lengthen super sets or essentially when
you couldn't get another full rep you
would keep going with length and
partials in this study comparing these
two approaches of just doing full reps
to doing lengthen super sets we found
50% more hypertrophy in the calf muscle
when doing lengthen suers sets as
opposed to a full range of motion
importantly the lateral Ray is similar
to the calf raay and that the hardest
part of the movement is at the very top
of the repetition when the muscle is
shortened there is good reason to
believe that this would generalize to
the shoulders as well and so as not
times we have to lengthen partials as a
way to emphasize the stretch although
this is only one study you could do full
reps on the lateral Rays until you can
get another one and then just do
partials that might be another way to
accentuate the stretch position the next
important factor we identified in our
review paper when it comes to technique
is to minimize the momentum generated by
other muscle groups or essentially
minimize Body English there's a few
things I play here one by involving our
lower body and bending over and Swinging
the weight up a little bit we're
involving muscle groups that aren't the
ones we want to Target it's very
unlikely you're going to get a great
stimulus for your glutes quads
hamstrings and adductors in the lateral
Ray unless you're really doing something
wrong similarly it is reducing the
chances that our side delts will be
limiting factor think about an isolation
movement versus more of a compound
movement in an isolation movement the
odds that the target muscle is is going
to be the limiting factor and get an
effective training stimulus in or higher
because there's fewer muscle groups
involved all of this to say that doing a
power raise where you're bend over and
kind of just lift the weight up with the
power of God it's not going to help your
shoulders grow and in fact it might even
be reducing how much tension your
shoulders have to produce in that bottom
stretch position by using your hips to
start heating the weight up you're
reducing that importantly when it comes
to minimizing the evolvement of
non-target muscle groups some people
tend to complain about the upper traps
being involved in the lateral Rings
that's because naturally the function of
bring your arm outwards is going to be
accompanied by some degree of scapular
elevation and so you'll be training both
your upper traps and your side dots
fortunately I don't think I've ever met
anyone with upper traps too large and I
would take this more as a bonus than
anything else plus I'm skeptical of the
idea that the upper traps are going to
be close to the limiting factor when it
comes to the ladder Ries with strict
technique most people can ladder Ries a
whole lot less than they can truck
obviously the moment arms and the biome
mechanics are different but you get the
idea the final component of good
technique that I've more so come across
in my own coaching experience is
preference and Pain Management provided
you've got a good range of motion a good
Tempo and you're minimizing the
involvement of other muscle groups you
may find that there's a certain
technique that you like a little bit
more for instance some people like
controlling the Ecentric for 4 seconds
versus for 2 seconds is this going to
make a difference for hypertrophy
probably not but if you prefer one over
the other feel free to use it likewise
if a certain technique causes you pain
during lateral Ray there's a good chance
you shouldn't be using it and there's
other options available for instance a
common cue being given during lat Ray is
to turn your pinkies up and sort of
internally rotate the shoulder and my
coaching experience this causes some
people some pain so if it does for you
don't do it without further Ado here's
how to do perfect technique lateral
raises to maximize shoulder grow First
grab a pair of dumbbells or whatever
equipment you're using realistically
sitting down on this isn't a big deal
since you won't be loading this super
heavily so feel free to do these lateral
raises standing or seated get the weight
into position to avoid using your hips
or cheating the weight up try squeezing
your glutes if necessary likewise keep
your chest down the whole time don't
puff it out and and extend your spine to
get the weight up the cue of keeping
your chest down can help accomplish this
for dumbbell lateral raises you can
either start with the dumbbells touching
at the very bottom of the rep or with
your arm straight down with cables
machines and lying dumbbell raises
definitely milk out that stretch
position do not skip it in fact let your
arm come across your body a little bit
to even further increase the stretch
when you start the rep be as explosive
as possible out of that bottom stretch
position it's always a good idea
creating more tension in the stretch but
especially so with a dumbell lateral
raise lift the weight until about 45 to
90Â° for partials or 90 to 180Â° for 4
motion there probably isn't any benefit
in terms of hypertrophy to going above
90 but you can do so control the weight
down taking at least two or so seconds
to perform the lowering phase optionally
pause briefly in the B position it
probably doesn't matter here because
there is minimal tension in that bottom
position so it's entirely up to you when
you breathe during the latter raise is
mostly personal preference stabilization
of the spine isn't a huge concern here
so intraabdominal pressure isn't that
big of a deal I personally Just Breathe
In and Out fre during the whole rep but
you can certainly perform Al maneuver
breathing out during the Ecentric
breathing in at the very bottom bracing
and Performing the concentric
congratulations you've performed really
solid technique on lateral raises let's
quickly go through a checklist and make
sure we've hit everything first as far
as range of motion goes we're making
sure we get that bottom stretch position
which is better on certain exercises but
you get the idea we're accelerating the
stretch even a little bit further we're
not skimping on the stretch by using
either lengthen partials or a 4 in of
motion we're not pausing at the top
emphasizing the shorten position if
anything spending more time at the
bottom part of the rep if you wanted to
increase the amount of tension in that
bottom position you could do something
like a machine lateral raise
alternatively if you also want to get a
deeper stretch in your side belts you
could do something like a cable or even
a flat Ling dumbbell side rat as far as
Tempo goes we have at least 2C Ecentric
we're being explosive out of that
stretched position and our reps
generally fall in the 2 to 8C effective
range finally as far as minimizing
involvement of other non-target muscle
groups goes we're doing a few things to
minimize this first if you find your
attempt to swing the weight squeeze your
glutes during the repetition second if
you find you tend to extend your spine
to get the weight up try the cue of
keeping your chest down during the whole
rep and just moving your arms so that is
the optimal lateral race technique when
it comes to building muscle tried this
with a new workout and you could be over
pressing the mediocre amount of 225 lbs
in no time that's the video If you
enjoyed it please like comment subscribe
leave a comment letting me know what
other exercises you want to see me break
down now wouldn't it be great if you had
a training app that just broke down each
exercise for you telling you exactly how
to do it to maximize muscle growth it
turns out that is a feature of a
training app we've been working on for
years now myself and other sports
scientists have been working hard behind
the scenes to bring this to you the app
is called myo adapt and if you head to
myo adapt.com you'll be able to sign up
to be notified when it gets released
it's du to be released within the next
couple months so keep an eye out this
app will create an individualized
training program for you no matter how
much time you have to train whether you
want to bring up certain muscle groups
and so forth and we're continuously
working to make it even better sign up
to the email newsletter to get notified
and if you you sign up when it comes out
you'll be locked in at a lower price
than you would otherwise ever get it's
Cutting Edge there's constantly more
science being incorporated into it
because we change the app as more
evidence comes out on how to optimize
your muscle growth you'll always be at
The Cutting Edge when it comes to
optimizing your training and you won't
have to think about your training
anymore which is always welcome for
instance since I've been using it I
found it tremendously enjoyable to just
pull out my phone oh it's a super
effective session already planned out
for me and if I don't like something I
can just change the exercise and better
yet the app tells you exercises are best
for muscle growth based on the evidence
so go check it out I really recommend it
if you'd like me to coach you check out
the link above and I could become your
coach and now that I've sold my soul and
that I've sold out and I'm chilling for
everything ever finally let me just
mention I hope you have a great day and
I'll see you guys my subscribers next
time peace