the Reps and Reserve are a giant
question mark sometimes it's total
failure or sometimes it's like 10 reps
in reserve that's the set today I'm
working on eel bro a lot of times they
say they do five sets but they'll do
three and just off that shit happens all
the fucking time
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization today's video is going to
tell you suggest to you rather in the
spirit of scientific inclusivity that
you should probably train more than the
pro bodybuilders you follow that is do
more sets per workout potentially it
almost certainly do a higher frequency
of training a given muscle if your
favorite pro trains chest once a week
you might be able to get away with
training it twice and getting better
results for your own body this is
curious what a curious stance I'm taking
typically you might have heard that the
pros train a ton and you don't want to
train as much as they do because hashtag
they're on drugs and they can recover
there is absolutely something to that
but there is more because you guys come
here to get that smart smart shit begin
smart smart shit now first of all
the reasons why you should consider
training more than your favorite pro
bodybuilders on average if your favorite
pro is doing 20 sets of workouts ever do
that
fiber type your favorite Pros probably
are more fast twitch fiber dominant
which means faster fibers usually have
smaller volume requirements they get so
stimulated from so little volume and
they're often so big and strong per
fiber that they just really don't need
much volume to grow and if they try to
do more they would start to get fatigued
and grow less
a lot of the pros that you follow the
reason they could have gotten so big
among other factors don't you worry
we'll get to those is that they're
gifted and having a higher proportion of
faster twitch fibers and those folks
cannot recover from any more training
often than they're doing and what
they're doing is just not that big
so in many people the hamstrings tend to
be a little bit more fast twitch than
other muscles how many of you can do 10
sets of hamstrings with a good technique
and remotely recover for a week later
almost no one now imagine having fast
super fast twitch chest and side delts
and biceps and triceps it's kind of like
a whole hamstring body yeah I'm getting
like you gotta go to a an art GPT art AI
generator and be like the body as a
hamstring enter somebody try that let me
know how it goes but in any case it just
turns out you just don't need much most
of us are not like the pros we have a
broader range of fibers all everyone has
a broad range of fibers but we're more
evenly split faster Twitches slower
twitch some of us are more slow twitch
than fast twitch and we can benefit from
even more volume precisely the people
that are not Pros are more likely to be
a little bit more on the slower twitch
end than the group of people that are
gifted and or Pros so watch out for that
because what is is good enough for a pro
because they're gifted and faster which
muscle fibers may not be enough for you
next Pros are big they're strong and
when you get really strong your ability
to damage and stimulate muscle growth is
just really not this not that hard like
using myself as an example even though
I'm not a pro I did I hit a hack squat
PR earlier at the Dragon's Lair where I
might be the only person that's not a
pro there at that gym and I did uh six
plates on the hack squat the Arsenal
hack for a set of 10 it was a really big
PR and like I only did four sets of
hacks and then like a drop set of body
weight stuff my quads are cooked for
four days why four sets so you fucking
said five sets total for the workout one
of them being body weight bullshit how's
that possible well fuck man you put six
weights uh six plates on the bar and you
take it to a full range of motion for a
couple sets of like around 10 reps
there's just so much fucking damage
because it's six fucking plates and I'm
not even a pro I'm not that strong you
got guys using the 160 pound dumbbells
doing good technique for sets of ten
fun incline dumbbell press you just
still need that many of those to
stimulate so much growth that you can't
scale Pros to the rest of you the same
thing happens in parallel things very
strong power lifters big strong guys in
the 275 242a class Etc you look at their
volumes they're like he doesn't do that
many sets he'll go do a set with 800 for
five and you're like oh yeah okay just
kidding that would probably kill me it
indeed would so there's another adjuster
to take how much Pros do understand
you're not as strong as they are you may
need more sets to stimulate more growth
next
bigger muscles can not only generate
more Force to damage themselves and
stimulate themselves more but they also
take more time to heal
if
you know back in the day Marcus rule who
is one of my favorite pros of all time
just on a sheer Audacity Of This
physique Google him if you uh you want
he used to do one chest workout a week
but
his chest was so fucking big that it's
bigger than most people's glutes just
categorically and strong
if he hits his chest it's just gonna
take a long time for his chest to
recover so either he has to truncate his
volume a ton and do it twice a week or
do what looks like a normal volume once
a week that's all he can do
look at big Romney's shoulders
bro that's a lot of muscle if that
muscle gets stimulated and fatigued it
just just come back the next day and do
shoulders again it's going to take time
to heal and thus either the frequency
has to be lower or the procession volume
has to be lower you don't have that
problem you have shoulders that are much
smaller than big Ramis sorry I'm taking
a guess here as to who our viewer is I'm
right about almost everyone in the world
you can certainly train shoulders more
often because the muscle is smaller it
doesn't take as long to heal to recover
back to baseline or more and then when
you can hit it again
now so yes you should train more than
the pros but not too much more
for at least two reasons first
Pros take drugs
and drugs help you recover better and
faster and in a shorter time frame but
I'm going to tell you the real real that
real shit because other people speculate
natties speculate they assume your boy's
not Maddie I don't have to speculate or
soon I'm around a ton of top athletes
that are not natural neither am I
drugs absolutely make a difference in
recovery
but not that much of a difference it's a
big deal if you can recover from seven
sets on average that's your mrv for a
muscle group without drugs taking a
whole bunch of drugs layering up to what
is at the top end of um reasonable not
I'm gonna die next year kind of dose you
might be able to heal from 10 or 11 sets
or something like that
in the same time frame it's not 14. it's
sure shit not 21. there's no drug to get
on where you triple your volume it just
doesn't happen it's occasionally it
happened very unlikely it's a very
uncharacteristic so if you're looking at
pros and you're like yeah but drawings
like definitely if they were not on
drugs they could recover from less
however I put this to you
drugs do a couple of things in the acute
term in the short term when you take
them for a few weeks few months they
boost your recovery like crazy but watch
this
take them for a while and the drugs
increase your strength and they increase
your size and those two things feed back
in to reduce your volume requirements
even though your recovery has come up
your volume requirements have come down
because you're now bigger and stronger
so in the end the drugs if a Pro's been
taking them for a few years they kind of
level out and then the net balance the
pros not doing any more sets than he was
four years ago before he started drugs
same number of sets at first it was more
then he had to crank it back down
because he got so big and strong as I I
can't do 12 sets of quads anymore this
is fucking crazy because big strong
quads can't take 12 sets of damage they
don't need it and they don't have to
have it they can't recover from
so there's limits there yes the drugs
help but not as much as the strength and
fiber type and the muscle size push them
into that other realm of not needing as
much volume
next
effort okay
Pros on paper train a lot
I'll say this another way that's more
accurate
Pros say they train more than they
actually train on average not everyone
of course
but you'll see what their training looks
like and it's like oh 15 sets for back
and then you go and train with that Pro
or you have them on your YouTube channel
and train them or you uh see them at the
gym every fucking Monday do their
workout
the Reps in reserve are a giant question
mark sometimes it's total failure
sometimes it's like 10 reps in reserves
that's the set today I'm working on
field bro
a lot of times they say they do five
sets but they'll do three and just fuck
off
that shit happens all the fucking time
and Jared feather was on this channel a
while back and he kind of is even more
in tune with what the pros do he is a
Pro and he's like bro almost all these
people just fucking will say how much
they train and it's like it's like half
of that or two-thirds of that so when
I'm telling you to train more than the
pros and you see that the pros train
with 10 sets per muscle let's say they
really train with like six or seven
so you will still train more than the
pros but maybe if you just copy the pros
you're actually doing the right amount
of volume so that brings that figure
down a little bit gives it some more
context so yes you should be trading
more in the pros a lot more than what
they actually train and maybe a little
bit more close to what they say they
train especially on per Set uh per
session volume how many sets of how many
hard sets of chest for example they do
in on a Monday right now here's your
path here's how to take all this and do
better with it first you probably in
general want to stick it most times
between
five sets per session and 12 sets per
session per muscle group most people
will find their best results somewhere
within there
if the pros do 20 fuck them if the pros
do three fuck
next
your per week or per muscle frequency
should be at least one time higher than
the pros if the pros train their chests
twice you could probably train your
chest three times if they train legs
once you could probably train legs twice
it is usually the frequency is the pros
can't handle the most because when they
get so big and strong their workouts
beat their joints up a little more I
could have added that in as another
reason
lots of other uh secondary reasons a lot
of times they don't train with great
technique so what ends up happening is
they're like hey like I train shoulders
once a week and you're like why not
twice like man my shoulders always can't
handle it like okay you're a fucking
idiot you're on a train but also yes
that's a good point so if I see my
favorite pro with big shoulders trains
shoulders once a week I know that maybe
in part it's because of all these other
reasons we talked about and because you
just can't recover because his shoulder
joints are fucked up but I don't lateral
raise the 80s I sure shit don't do it
with terrible technique which is
probably why I'm not using the 80s in
the park I'm using the 15s or whatever
and then you can train shoulders at
least twice a week so give that some
thought and when you start whatever
training you have whether or not it was
inspired by a pro or inspired by a pro
and modified according to this video you
know add some frequency uh potentially
increase the volume over time you want
the most important feature of that isn't
where you start it's how you Auto
regulate from where you go if your
training seems it gets too much you're
just getting tired or not progressing
well you're sore all the time you never
heal
dreamless and you will grow let me tell
you guys about the RP hypertrophy app
with over 28 preset programs already in
the app you can choose to make your own
you can modify an existing program or
you could just run the programs exactly
as they were written by me personally
this app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
on the other hand if the training is
pretty easy you think you could do more
and still recover
train more
increase by little decrease by a little
find that place for a few weeks of a
mesocycle where you're getting sore
you're getting tired you're recovering
just on time and you're still
progressing that is your formula for
Success no matter what the pros do folks
give that some thought if you want to
upgrade your nerd level shit to talk
about all these braining Concepts in
even more depth consider the members
area it's five bucks a month get extra
videos every week and a whole bunch of
other bonus stuff and if you really want
to ask myself personal questions like
excuse me Mike is it true that you at
one point had the third largest penis in
the entire developed world I wasn't
gonna tell you because that shit is in
the members area the answer is yes but
there's some Nuance to that story team
full ROM answer your questions all the
time every week through video chat and
we have tons of questions you can post
all the time myself I'll get to them
other members Jared feather will get to
them and there's this whole community
and you can have your videos checked for
technique and we'll improve it over time
tons of programming tons of diet stuff
it's all included in one price give that
a look it's in the description and I'll
see you guys next time