oh God his fingers oh God he's putting
his hands on it please don't eat it like
that please don't eat it off the wooden
table with your dirtying fingers guys by
the way I don't think he uses soap
because soap hormonally disrupts you or
whatever oh God oh God Scott this really
GNA
happen all right all right all right
this gross ring and his stupid fat
fingers going to go and have a little
baby duck oh hey Filipinos do that it's
called balute if you can eat balute uh
you're reallying Asian if you can't
doesn't matter what you look like or
language you speak you're kind of white
all right we eat the baby duck very
prival hit
it grossing shit on his beard I've never
seen a more punchable person in my life
good God don't give a what liver King is
having for dinner Hey liver King eat
aing cock for dinner and not in the fun
way motherfucker God damn it that was
awful