should you train to failure well the
latest highest quality study
inexperienced subjects actually found no
difference between taking a set all the
way to failure versus stopping one to
two rep shy but the problem is if you
never take any sets to failure how are
you supposed to know what one to two
reps in the tank feels like so that's
why I'm pretty much every exercise I
just take the last set all the way to
failure let me show you what that looks
like for one of my leg days so on the
leg press as you get close to failure
you're going to be really tempted to
just let the weight free fall but it's
extremely important that as you do those
last few reps you still control the
negative going to failure on the leg
curl is kind of interesting because
after you reach failure when you can't
get the pad quite all the way down you
can still probably crank out another two
or three partial reps this is what I'll
do on my last set going to failure on
Bulgarian split squats is absolutely
brutal so I'd recommend doing two sets
tops your last set to failure and again
with leg extensions make sure you
control the negative especially as you
get close to failure