hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's topic is an
interesting slightly nerdier one on what
the upside is of planned progressions in
your training things you think ahead of
time while i'm going to lift this weight
for this many reps versus what we call
pure autoregulation which is where you
show up to a session you see how you
feel and you sort of do what you're
capable of now there's a bit more
formality to auto regulation than just
that so let's talk about what auto
regulation and training with it in
almost a pure sense in muscle growth
training really kind of looks like in
pure autoregulation you show up to the
gym and you just basically have
a number of sets to get done let's say
five sets of squats
and a target rir for each set reps in
reserve maybe you're leaving let's say
two reps in the tank
that means you do five sets of squats
each one has two reps in the tank
you might even have a load predetermined
but no predetermined reps you're gonna
put 225 on the bar after you've warmed
up thoroughly
and maybe two ir on the first set is 12.
maybe two r on the second set is 10.
maybe you feel good on the third set
again in two hours 12 again who knows
there's no okay you have to hit this
much weight for this many reps either
the weight or the reps are completely up
to you to figure out in the moment based
on how close to failure you think that
set is going
it works really well
and it generally tends to work better
and better as you get better at gauging
rio over time because the big criticism
against auto regulation and against prep
and reserve estimate it's like beginners
intermediates i just don't really know
what five or three or four or two or one
or zero from fail is
anywhere near reliably enough and if you
just tell them yeah i just do two from
fail they could be going to failure all
the time or almost they could be going
10 reps in reserve and the studies have
confirmed that beginners actually can do
that but as you get more advanced you
get better at this rar process
however training like this in a pure
autoregulatory style without as many
pre-planned progressions
has a few distinct limitations that
maybe some pre-planning can ameliorate
a few of them just sort of off the top
what if you're being lazy that day what
if you don't feel like you have it that
day
what if you're being pain avoidant that
day you got a little something in your
knee it probably isn't a big deal but
you're like oh i think that set is over
i think that's two reps in reserve even
though it was just a pain or forget an
actual sort of injury connected pain
maybe you're just like doing high reps
of curls and you could have done 26 reps
but you stopped at like 21 because the
burn got too intense if the burn is too
intense then you're all sort of just
done with it and that's not to where i
are that's like five rer but you told
yourself okay well that's quote unquote
two rir it's tough to be honest when
you're in just super dire paint it's
super it is the third concern is the
level of psyching you do what if you
just didn't psych up as much as you did
last time
so let's say you did 225 for sets of
roughly 10 to rer last time this time
you come in and let's say your rir goal
is like one just one rep in reserve
225 percent of roughly 10 last time the
last time you were feeling it you
psyched up this time you didn't psych up
and it honest your honest assessment per
set is that you're actually stopping at
eight reps per set and it's one rir
that's without a psych up and you didn't
standardize those things so
okay
is this session as challenging as last
time no
it is not very overloading because it
doesn't present an overload over the
last thing you did last week so maybe
it's not the greatest training in the
world at this point if you can't
standardize the amount of it's going to
say psychosis but that's the wrong term
the amount of psychological arousal
trained that you're actually bringing to
the table
and of course lastly what if you're
feeling like a total rock star
does that mean you do like way more i
mean if you're really feeling it in two
where i are sets of 13 and 14 reps what
you're going to do is have this radical
increase in stimulus from last time
which we know from earlier research can
increase the chance of injury so if you
do like sets of 10 25 last time and then
you know 2 30 on the bar and you do sets
of like 14 or 15 because you're just
really there
every single one of those sets presents
a pretty nasty chance for injury and you
may do so much muscular and connective
tissue damage in that session sort of
the good kind of damage but a bit too
much of it that the next session you
train that muscle group injury can be
more likely to occur overreaching could
be more likely to occur because you just
kind of overdid it even though you were
feeling it and look your job is only
just due to reps in reserve nobody told
you the goal would you have to
standardize the amount of psyching you
can't feel like a rock star you can't be
lazy and how do you even define what
lazy means if there's no objective
standard of performance to hit if
someone's like all right here's 225
and you know you're gonna do squats with
it until you hit two reps in reserve
there's a lot of questions left to okay
well
you're just trusting me completely that
i know what two ir is with everything
equalized down to psychological drive
like well yeah like that's really hard
to do right and the result is this can
change your rep results set to set week
to week a ton
even if all the sets are nominally at
2rir
some weeks you may be getting way too
much stimulus and paying for it in
fatigue costs and injurious costs some
weeks and some sessions you may be
getting way too little stimulus barely
nudging the needle of growth if at all
you're kind of in maintenance mode even
though you think you're progressing
so that's not great
and
when you become bigger and stronger
especially much bigger and stronger as
you get more advanced
a lot of your performances can start to
look pretty exotic
right and that means that the
psychological drive it takes you the
setup technique-wise it takes you the
nutrition and everything it takes you to
rest prior to the sessions is the only
thing really guaranteeing that you'll
make a progression because it takes a
lot of you to get into it so for example
if someone is let's say deadlifting for
hypertrophy sets of 8 to 12 on the
deadlift they're dead lifting 115 pounds
you know just compared to what the human
body can stand any human body 115 is not
that much weight and if you're pulling
on it it's not moving and you only get
it for six reps you can kind of wake up
and get 15 reps the next set it's not
uncommon for folks of that strength
level
if you are more advanced than you're
let's say deadlifting 400 for reps
unless you get everything right and
you're nice and healed and you get your
technique right you may be looking at
sets of 10 400 but one of those things
off you're not looking at sets of five
or six
or even a single or double feels so bad
that you're just done with it now that's
no way to provide overload and that
variation between the stimulus from this
week to last week to next week is now
really really high
and that means that unless you really
bring it every time
and then of course if you bring it every
time you've got to go really hard you
might go beyond two from fail
it's really difficult to honestly get
something like two or three from fail
because it's this weird gray area of try
pretty hard but not too hard
but
what i'm saying is as you get more
advanced
a lot of your lifts demand that you try
pretty fucking hard
and trying really hard and matching two
or three rir that's a really tough ask
because you got to go hard to get
similar reps to last week if that's
important and it is
but then at the same time you got to
restrain yourself it's a tough challenge
to do only autoregulation
and i think we can improve it i think we
can get the benefits of auto regulation
but in addition to that layer in some
pre-planned progression to get sort of
the best of both worlds
pushing to ever greater heights which is
your job as an advanced hypertrophy
trainee someone who's seeking muscle
growth at a high level
pushing to ever greater heights gets
really tough as the heights increase
going from 100 pounds on the squat to
105 for sets of 10 not bad going from
400 to 410 pounds much more difficult
you need to get much more everything in
line it doesn't just automatically
happen
so the joke i made here is it getting to
higher and higher heights you want
something like an altimeter to tell you
where you are
if you are climbing let's say mount
everest and past a certain height you're
going to need supplemental oxygen just
according to data let's say i don't know
i'm going to make up a number 18 or 20
000 feet and above you need supplemental
oxygen in your condition
it's risky if you don't get supplemental
oxygen for a while maybe even a few
minutes at a certain altitude you start
to kind of phase out you're not
cognitively there you may forget some
critical things that get you killed on
mount everest
so if you're climbing on everest do you
want an altimeter to tell you hey look
you've passed 20 000 feet time to weave
in your supplemental oxygen are you
gonna go without one you can go with
that one if you're ballers fuck but you
may make a critical mistake as you get
really serious about something you want
to make sure that you're taking the
steps to get where you need to go and
that means you may want to have some
pre-planned steps
because
in the throes of a really heavy set just
like in the throes of maybe climbing
something like mount everest they're
heavy winds so to speak it's a gnarly
thing you're doing it's a slightly risky
thing a lot of stuff is going on
you want to have a target to hit so that
you're not doing two things at the same
time trying really hard and then second
guessing yourself to try to say okay am
i two reps in reserve and should i stop
it helps to do the following instead
first you start your mesocycle with
roughly three reps in reserve and in
that workout you can really try to do
your best mental math to try to really
stop it around through epsom reserve
roughly because it's okay if it's two
it's okay if it's four but just once
we're going to try to guess
you write down all of your reps and all
of the weights you're using for all the
sets
then in the next weeks
after that every time you come into the
gym especially if you're advanced you
seek to either add one rep to every
single set at the same load or to keep
the reps exactly the same but increase
by like two and a half pounds or
something like that or five or something
now if you're feeling real great you can
go and add two reps or add five to ten
pounds no big deal but on the advanced
side usually
err on the side of conservative so just
add one rep or one two and a half pound
increment
either way
you have a distinct goal every single
week it's not that you have to come in
and load foreign on the deadlift bar
after warming up with it or whatever
warming up with 135 225 315 405 and you
say okay
uh i need like i guess just to hit 2 ir
the fuck does that mean is that 6 reps
is that 10 you might look at your week
before but by looking at the week before
you're already sort of conceding the
fact that rar by itself is just not that
great what you need to do is look back
at the week before and say okay i got
395
for like three sets of eight
this time i'm gonna do 400
for three sets of eight or 405 for three
sets of eight or something like that or
395 for three sets of nine or four sets
of nine or something like that whatever
if you're adding a set
your this week's goal is pegged to what
you did last week and just goes a little
bit beyond that way every week you train
you go a little beyond a little beyond a
little beyond and that all sums up
and that's really awesome now
that automatically means that you get
closer to failure over time because the
goal gets harder every time now if you
start training and you increasing the
difficulty and you're not getting any
closer to failure holy shit you're
making unreal gains keep going
eventually you will hit failure that'll
help you know what objectively failure
is but also looking back behind what
just happened you'll have weeks and
weeks and weeks of really really awesome
progression pegged to a standard and
that standard is what you did last time
and because you just went a little bit
beyond last time
it's reasonable it's not like we're
asking you to go all out or something
like that you're still very likely
having reps in reserve so you don't get
into training to failure all the time
getting tons of fatigue
but because you have a distinct thing to
hit we can do two things one we know
exactly how hard to go every single time
what the goal is and where we can check
market okay i did what i needed to do to
progress
and two
because if you fail to meet the goal
two sessions in a row we can say okay
it's not going to happen your fatigue is
too high then you can execute whatever
deload protocol you can take a recovery
session recovery half week full deload
whatever you need
most of those factors come down to if
you're systemically fatigued as well as
locally because it gesture quads that
are beat up or is it your whole body you
make the decision you do the deload you
come back to training and you start a 3r
again and you start that slow walk
upwards that slow walk upwards gives you
somewhere to go it's like carving a path
in mount everest all the way to the top
sure as hell not be as pristine of a
mountain anymore and a bit more
commercialized but if you had a
staircase you just step one step at a
time it's the easiest thing in the world
and because the altitude increases as
you keep stepping it's not like someone
could say look oh man ever since they
put into the steps into everest it's
like totally pointless to climb up like
motherfucker i ain't climbing up to
everest even this shit has an elevator
it's too fucking far to go up steps that
shit is brutal as hell but it gives you
something to do now here's the thing
with mount everest the whole thing is
you try to make it really challenging
because so few people have ever summoned
it
hypertrophy is a little different yes
it's challenging very few people get
super jacked but if we can carve some
steps into the hypertrophy ascension
that's benefiting all of us because we
have a clear road to go we want the
process of everest climbing to be
somewhat mysterious because that's the
allure like we don't want to mechanize
and completely have a fucking robot walk
you up there because that's bullshit
we don't want training to be too
mysterious maybe not at all because
we're here for results like if somebody
could just drop you out on a helicopter
or some shit i don't think helicopters
fly that high but drop you off the top
mount everest it would mean nothing
you'd be like i submitted you take some
pictures and people think you're a
fucking liar because you are if someone
could helicopter you up and just give
you all the muscle mass you wanted oh my
god we could all fucking retire and go
into other industries think fucking god
the whole fitness space would be over it
would just be like this one easy step
solution it's the goal of muscle mass we
want the journey's beautiful it's part
of the process but if you can make a few
more steps in that mountainside say okay
last week got 405 for sets of 10 this
week it's 11. next week is 12. next week
i can't hit 13 i hit 11 again it i do it
again uh in the session after it's too
much i deload i restart i repeat we
climb climb drop climb climb drop and
eventually that makes training a really
mechanized process that is very easy to
understand very straightforward you have
distinct goals you know exactly how hard
you need to go it clears the mystery
like crazy which is a huge huge help
right
why does this method
work so well i've been using it for like
a generation or something like that it
works incredibly well it's incredibly
psychologically beneficial
you can get complacent
and forget how much effort hard training
really actually takes but if you set a
distinct rep and set goal for every
single workout you have after the first
workout occurred you make the second
after the second you make the third you
make these little goals okay last time
we got 13 reps at 400 this time it's 14
up so 400 or 13 reps at 4 10 something
like that
if you can set these little goals
a lot of times it's just kind of on you
to get the job done it doesn't matter
how it feels like if i have deadlifts
programmed to 400 pounds i don't give a
fuck if i'm like oh man that's gonna be
hard or i'm not really feeling it or i
feel like a psychopath i can do 500
doesn't matter you just hit 410 for sets
of 11 or whatever that's your job
and whatever warming up and psyching up
you have to do
it's what's happen it's what has to
happen a lot of times when you get
really big and strong you start to like
not believe you're able to lift the
weights fucking really i'm like curling
the whole stack on this machine like uh
what about injury risk what about this
net your brain can lie to you a lot we
can say okay we'll do a couple reps and
then we'll ease in we'll do more reps
first that's kind of more of a warm-up
set even though we're already warmed up
bullshit
if you have last time you did sets of 10
you should have every belief this time
you can do sets of 11. it's almost
certainly about to happen or sets of
town with two and a half pounds more
you have it written in paper that you
are capable of doing very something very
similar all you need to do is do a
little bit more now that's easy to
believe because if you randomly just use
rir
randomly use auto regulation
a lot of people the way they abuse it is
to say okay i'm not feeling it today i
did sets of eight last time with 405 i'm
gonna stay at four or five minutes
that's a six kind of work on my
technique that's not gonna get you
anywhere very far that is you just being
sort of weak about shit you have to have
an objective realistic standard that's
safe just a little bit higher than last
time and it works super super well
because you set this
expectation of going a little bit beyond
every single time overload is built into
the program you can't if you say our r
trainings for pussies or whatever like
is it though
is it every time you add a little bit
you keep going at some point you're
going to hit the shit real seriously or
just going to get infinitely big and
strong right
and the good thing is with this method
you never have to second-guess yourself
if you're pushing hard enough someone
can ask you are you training hard enough
you can say okay well last week i did a
hundred pounds per sets of ten this week
i did one or five percent of ten they're
like okay what if that's all really easy
like maybe but after many many weeks
i'll hit something that challenges me
because my goal is to match or beat the
number of reps from last time or the
number of pounds on the bar for the same
reps if i can't do that two times in a
row then it's no good for me but i know
my goal and i know i have to try and of
course you can wish out and pretend to
fail but that's much more obvious than
just having an estimation here
in addition fatigue management becomes
very easy a lot of people who don't use
formal performance metrics to manage
fatigue just say things like oh i'm
feeling pretty tired i think i'll take a
couple days off for a couple light days
you know feeling tired is a thing it's a
lot of that psychological you could be
feeling tired and you say you know what
i have to hit this workout i have to at
least try you go in there and i'm sure
you guys have had this experience many
times i sure as hell have
and you fucking rock the workout you go
in there and destroy the shit and you're
like well fuck like if me being tired
perceptively isn't so reliable
how many times have i been tired before
and taken a deload and said to myself oh
i'm too beat up and i was actually just
being lazy and i missed some opportunity
for gains because i wasn't challenging
myself well with this system you just
had a little bit each time i mean you
know exactly when you aren't able to add
any more and then it's time for deload
it's much less ambiguous sure you can
still us out pretend you couldn't do it
but that's a lot harder to convince
yourself of you know what you're doing
in the moment versus just saying like oh
i'm supposed to go by feel anyway
this starts you off by feel and then
takes the feel away and gives you
objective measurements objective points
to hit very easy ones or pretty easy
ones just one small step at a time and i
gotta tell you guys one small step at a
time is the way muscle growth actually
happens
give this some thought shoot me some
questions in the description like
subscribe do all that stuff follow me on
instagram doctor my kids show if you
want much more updating about my
terrible foods that i eat and the
workouts that i do i'll see you guys
next time
you