I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule in choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
folks welcome back to the weekly webinar
dr. Hoffman and dr. is retail as always
so I don't know if any of you guys
noticed I'm sure you did rp+ had a
little bit of a change of formatting so
it looks a little bit different when you
log in and some of you already mentioned
that you had some trouble finding the
place to post the questions because it's
not where it normally is so I had our
web person and Mike's sister Sonya
actually look into it so hopefully by
next week where you post your questions
is a little easier to find this time so
I think it was just buried at the end of
the thread everything everything that
was pinned went to the the last thread
but we found it for now and hopefully
next time we'll be good to go
yeah you tell him James yeah well I was
the match so I had a a meme in my head
you know the the the angry lady and the
leg wincing cat yeah right so it was
like angry the angry lady was like rp+
looks different and then like the
wincing cat was like weekly webinar so
yeah hopefully it'll be easy for you
guys next time you want to get started
then I relatively do it short list
tonight let's do it all right so the man
only named John John okay quick rant
before I go on I know I know that John
wick is cool I love John wick I love the
movies I like the overly stylized shit
that they do you know cuz the I mean
it's very stylized videography and
script one thing that because for no
reason at all the noise maybe there's no
explaining this there's an explaining
but no justifying is how they say each
other's names a lot as a form of
greeting either goodbye or hello like
and I'm saying Jews say Shalom it means
goodbye hello and I think peace he'll be
like Sean and the other guy would be
like Frank and interest like you don't
see my fucking name at many
in a day I don't even know if I say
James that often I say hey you know or
goodbye you know I'm saying well they
kept I'm leaving I'm like peace I'm not
like James like weird oh my god I used
to uh my my XD on her and her family
both they all did that they would always
like every time they spoke they would
address each other by their name and I
always like Wow funny and I still give a
shit about that outside you know who
you're talking to you for the love of
God yeah John says nutrition question if
you guys wouldn't would mind giving your
thoughts was which she did we worried
about limiting red meat intake if we
already focusing on eating 90% plus lean
red meats meaning lean content of a meat
is not 90 percent of my diet because the
lean meats right gotcha car therefore a
carnivore I think that you can eat 90
percent lean red meat in if the rest of
your diet is fundamentally healthy you
are fucking gold and not a prop at all
can you optimize your diet a little bit
more take an extra super longevity by
eating a bit considerably more fish
probably but you're looking at it's
something that I'll tell you what is
between like one two three years of life
extension at the end of your life slash
we don't know if it's any life extension
because every time we think we have a
grasp on the state of the literature and
these real peripheral tiny effects on
health a new comprehensive review comes
out and goes yeah me it's actually not
that bad at all so one thing to have
trouble with meet researchers people
that eat meat or generally piece of shit
I'm just kidding but what seriously
there's a lot of pieces of shit that he
needs and far fewer pieces of shit that
eat vegan like if you're vegan you're
probably a good person probably too good
and it pisses everybody off you probably
take care your health and all that other
bullshit the average red meat eater is a
person who sits around and also smokes
cigarettes through a steaks you know so
they have a real hard time taking that
apartment in the most recent reviews
literature they've done a much more
advanced statistical treatment of the
data that had much more comprehensive
data sets and if being able to but get a
lot of the variables out of the way and
the more
to get out of the way the now they can't
even conclude that red meat consumption
does much of anything as far as your
health is concerned and in the negative
so you know that's I'll put you this way
an interesting tidbit for science theory
of science if further better more
precise studies lead to the reduction in
the size of the effect of your variable
of interest you're probably looking at a
variable that makes either no difference
at all or just doesn't do anything if
incremental e more precise studies
increase the variable of magnitude then
you're probably looking at a real
phenomenon one was the effect of the
common homeowners is a famous example
effect of a common home environment like
how your parents talk to your good boy
your bad boy on personality traits deep
personality traits later in life and as
the studies got better better controlled
you saw that the common home environment
went from roughly 10% estimated effect
on personality to roughly zero if you
are betting person just don't bet that
that as a big deal because they better
studies give you the results that are
looks like it's less of it it's probably
just doesn't do anything where's very
small so same idea with red meat the
gross studies like if you just correlate
red meat consumption to gross health
outcomes Jesus Christ looks like a
goddamn cancer-causing fucking heart
disease I mean everything
suicide probably and then as you pull
out more and more variables leaving red
meat in so if you look at a group of
people that consume red meat often but
have excellent health behaviors
otherwise it could prepare them to
people that eat a lot of fish and
otherwise have the same health behaviors
you basically don't see anything which
just tells us that you know red meat
probably is not anyway bad for your
health and body worth your time I'm not
sure super into longevity I just
wouldn't be on rv+
yeah I looked into this a little bit
because I have like a strong his family
history of various types of cancers and
I was kind of a little concerned about
the red meat issue and most of it is
seems to be confounded by genetics and
other lifestyle factors like just like
Mike said being a piece of shit but
really like being overweight being you
know unfit being just inactive and
eating more than you need to and that's
the funny thing with most of these
health things where you look at like
cholesterol you look at all these like
you know trans fats and stuff and like
sometimes there's something there but a
lot of the times it's just like don't be
a fat jaw before you're most of
life and you're probably fine that seems
to be the case here so I think it's
maybe in your interest to not
exclusively eat red meat in some ways
that might not be the best thing in the
world but at the same time it's probably
not the worst thing either so yeah it's
kind of one of those like shrug do your
best
yeah if it's lean red meat you're
getting away from a lot of the other
confounding variables which is a high
amount of animal saturated fat is not
always good for you like it is if it's
in dairy for product form the you know
with eggs it's probably that's not clear
yet but with very fatty meats yeah I
might not be the greatest thing for you
so if it's lean then you're probably
good to go
totes
Bassam Ahmadi says good evening Mike and
James how was the RP summit did it go
well it seemed to be very fun and I hope
the best for RP in the future and James
your hair has grown so quickly already
I'm so proud sheds tear it was actually
really a wild man apologize for being an
ass for the questions last week I'm
hoping to make up for it by not being
that much of a cunt again good money to
be a cunt
so cunt away you fuckin fuck man
number one you said that I was too
advanced am i thinking to be writing for
Zeke templates about them specifically
so that I don't have to overthink my
training but now I know Jabbar gentlemen
oh the agony I'm thinking of ways I
could modify the template for my needs
and one of them being increasing the
frequency for muscle groups like side
and rear doll straps and perhaps biceps
as they seem to recover rather quickly
for me I could also switch I could also
perhaps switch over some stuff I have to
be wary that adding more exercises could
perhaps affect my total body or me
that's true giving less room for other
muscle groups however I feel like I'm
not advanced enough to have to worry
about full body mov seating individual
muscle groups or rather not exceed about
your muscle groups all the way around
what weaknesses do you think the
template have that I could modify I can
only think of the frequency but that's
it really
so one extra thing you can program in
there is different rep ranges within the
Meza cycle easily do that in the world
just lie about how strong you are
and different frequencies is a really
good start more advanced autoregulation
really because it says like hey house
do you feel / house recovered were you
but really those should be two different
indices I don't want to know if you want
to make that sort of autoregulation
system yourself which you can to give
some thought to that genes you got
anything I mean yeah it's not so much
that the template has weaknesses so much
that it's just it's just not
individualized and that's that would be
considered a weakness so the frequencies
is a big one the individual volumes per
muscle group or per movement activity
would that would be something you should
modify heavily like even the SF are some
exercises you might find some exercises
are really good and some of the ones on
the list maybe aren't that great for you
that's fine I have a hard time imagining
if you just are modifying things like
biceps rear delts traps that you're
really gonna like throw your systemic
MRV for a big loop I mean it's feasible
but those are such small low fatigue
muscle groups the only thing I could
imagine getting you is if you're doing
like a lot of like barbell shrugs like
four times per week just standing and
holding that weight there might kind of
creep up on you but other than that I
think you'll probably be fine just yeah
use the use the template as a template
and then just just modify it as your own
individual needs like if you can train
biceps four or five times per week and
do it and you know go for it there's
nothing wrong with that
but he says I think when I finally
finished the recovery book while I
marked a book in scientific principles
strength training I'll finally be able
to use set principles to program for
myself in a legit manner and the same
way you use the nutrition principles to
create my own diet
I'm also when we come out with a
bipartite so if you could go really like
those that should be coming out very
soon can't wait for that Burke's free
book to come out so become all-powerful
and become self-sufficient aligned with
all my chakras and principles together
to create a Super Saiyan version of me
number two I have a client who wants to
learn to be able to do a full pull up to
be able to do a pull-up in a few weeks
okay so the first of all I'm just gonna
jungles knows exactly honest I was like
this tutor op there's two routes we're
gonna go here wonder what he's gonna
pick yeah so to channel the spirit of
Thomas soul it is by no means clear this
person is going to be able to do pull up
in a few weeks right we don't know that
that's possible so let's keep reading
but remember not all desires are
realistic it's also not necessarily a
matter of learning either yeah right so
let's keep going I remember Mike
mentioning that specificity can only get
you so far with pull-ups well in a few
weeks that the only thing you have
because you won't be able to face
potentiate ship in a few weeks
especially if you can't even do a single
one and the example you brought up was
of how somebody won't increase this
flowerin max by doing single rep at a
time
you also mentioned you could it just be
a shitty way to do it
you also mentioned there period without
any pull-ups at all but instead I've
worked if you focus block to actually
increase back musculature would be more
beneficial to insert my engine analogy
here rewire and retrain than even let's
go short for strength giving more
pull-ups this is not quite possible as
the client only has three weeks I
believe until their deadline or whatever
cheese what kind of weird Mad Max
deadline is this fuck I'm gonna die pull
up would it be correct for me to program
lat pull-downs or negative pull-ups
for her in the 5 to 10 rep range as soon
as she can get overweight above 6 reps
or g- some more than 6 reps i increase
the weight on the pull downs and make
the negative pull-ups even more
overloading with perhaps a few pauses
would it be correctly to program left
pull downs are negative pull-ups are in
the 5 to 10 range no it's not correct
but very good thinking Masum i think my
recommendation would be to program
pull-ups in the 1 to 5 range full downs
and negative pull-ups and assistant
pull-ups and because that's going to
maximize peak strength which is in a few
weeks is what you're training her for
james yeah I'm just trying to think like
obviously like we've given a similar
answer for hypertrophy kind of focused
for strength like man I think assisted
pull-up and and put like assisted
pull-up variations are gonna be your way
to go yeah normally I would say I'm not
a huge fan of the negatives from like a
longevity of your training block
perspective but in this case I think it
actually might not be a terrible idea I
wouldn't do the pull downs the pole he's
not enough time did really benefit from
them yeah Anna specificity transfer shit
so assisted pull-ups plus negative
pull-ups like here's one like forget
make it a full ups like if she has
something to help her which she should
and you know she took my just get
something to give
have someone launch her up like help her
on the way up and then she goes down on
her own but the help on the way up
should be really minimal so that she's
basically doing four reps like all four
5rm right like then you know slowly but
surely the help decreases and hopefully
she can do a pull-up you want to peek
there a taper you probably know how to
build a basic one of those I would also
recommend pretty high frequency training
in her case so I would say she needs to
do these pull-ups negative pull-ups
assisted pull-ups three to four times a
week with you know two to two to six
sets of them per session because that
maximizes neural learning and short-term
restraint increases and probably in
hurricanes hypertrophy - you're not
going to be launching her pull-up much
on hypertrophy because you don't grow
much muscle in three weeks it's gonna
have to be mostly girl and that needs
lots of practice with heavy weights and
you can also just do negative sets or if
you have like a step up box or something
she can just step up like jump up do a
negative set like come down step up jump
up repeat like if she's really nowhere
even remotely close but if she's nowhere
remotely close she's okay yeah that's
like this is one of those like funny
conundrums like why is there a deadline
here on this in this but yeah if that
person later when you reply next week
why don't you let us know why the fuck
this is happening just out of curiosity
as much as you can say anyway I'm
guessing she's probably doing like some
kind of fitness challenge yeah okay it's
like cuz nobody would be unless you're I
have a hard time imagining somebody is
trying to get into the military or I was
like a first responder and they're not
able to even remotely come close to some
of these Fitness marker oh I've met
people like that JMO I mean
realistically I mean like yeah there are
people who have they should have just
quit while they were ahead but most
people who take it seriously if they
know that there's push-ups or pull-ups
they're gonna like you know they will
have at least experimented more than
three weeks out from the test itself if
they're reasonable she's fucking crazy
anyway hope that advice was decent
number three Mike if I was if I want to
get if I was to want to get them to
contact
privately how would I do that Facebook
sent some dick pics but on a serious
note
bassant I follow you on Instagram so hit
me up I'm on the ground just message me
and I'll get your message for the rest
of you folks listening if I don't follow
you I never get any messages so don't
cry search for you with an expectation
of reply just comment on my closest says
that's all I had for today and he says
ho
hello holy moly you guys really did
something with our people s website I'm
loving the new design but this forum by
the way is impossible to find I was
lucky I said I again most people didn't
Sophie very few formal rushes to them at
this time
we're gonna get more info on how to find
the forum he said here's the deal since
I posted my last discussion of bad
timing leading they're not being
answered I'll just pile these on if it's
already you guys it's totally ok number
4 so if I want to modify recent citizen
meso in the physique template to me get
more strength focus I'm thinking of
doing this is a correct increase in my
cycle to four to one or more yeah I
wouldn't straight trade for more than
floor 1/3 to 1/4 1 is fine
make the rep range of my exercise about
3 to 6 reps making the weights of the
first cut about 75% of my 1rm while also
having the majority of overload being
done by 8s see progression yes s 2 for
the intensity progression ask to the
police interrupts the rep range is
correct the 75% of my on RM is like a
guess right so you just don't know how
many reps chrisley depends on the
exercise depends on the individual so
many other factors depends on the kind
of fiber type you're in you know like
for people in their more slow twitch
dominant even at the time because fiber
type shift
sorry episode 1 around they could do
like 10 times or 15 times while other
people very fast which that's somebody
focus on where arms may be much higher
but they might be able to do it for just
5 reps or something so I would say just
using your warm-ups and a couple of feel
sets target a weight that's three or six
reps with you know two IR and also I
would say with the reps in reserve I
don't know what it's like on the current
templates but I wouldn't train any less
than two any more than two reps in
reserve on strength so I wouldn't do
three or four reserve because that's way
tonight
James yeah I had a couple things so I
don't remember what cuz we've done so
many templates at this point I remember
how it was set up but general
when you're going from hypertrophy to
strength more often than not you're not
going to increase the mesocycle length
now I remember there was a couple short
ones there were some that were like two
and one or three yeah there's a
two-to-one there so it's so 3 2 1 4 2 1
is fine but just as a general trend like
you wouldn't increase the length for
strength
typically it's gonna go the other
direction so just food for thought there
and with the reps it really depends on
where you left off and your last mezzo
so if you have left off doing a
metabolite like combination meza where
you're probably 20 yeah 10 to 20 and
then maybe 20 to 30 I would actually go
against that insight 5 to 10 exactly and
then if you were to do another repeat of
that you could do the 3 to 6 or like 4
I'll use 4 to 8 just as an example but
yeah that's the same idea but you want
to have you you'd want to have a heavy
ish one in between there going from sets
of like 25 to sets of 3 is a disaster
away together but I promise ya I've done
it a lot it sucks um just another food
for thought while James is on the
subject James and I are real big
proponents of if you're gonna do a
strength mezzo do 2 or 3 of them shits
because yes just one strength mezzo gets
you basically like it's like shifting
your gears in your car finally and then
you're like like races over you know
your shift that takes a mezzo you say oh
it's a wasted mezzo no it shifts your
gears it accomplishes it puts you in
this unbelievable groove to really get a
lot out of strength training and of
course it does make you stronger but
just a little you could get the other
thing is that if you continued for
another mezzo oh my god did you would
hit fucking radical PRS but if you just
did it one man's only give me a little
stronger than normal and then you go
back type her trophy so if you don't if
you're gonna bother with a string stuff
you're gonna cost your joints a little
bit so on and so forth do two or three
miles at least two if you're not just
stick to the fucking normal reason
civilization because you're really just
changing gears and costing your joints
of psychology's and so so fatigue
probably pretty close to nothing James
my reason no I think a lot of people
like like to switch to strength because
they I think it's like a easier there
anymore yeah it's like easier to say
like I'm training for something rather
than kind of training for essentially
nothing or at least I was training for
a longer-term investment so for a lot of
people it's easier to flip that switch
but then they kind of will sell them
shell short and like I remember we had
this conversation a couple weeks ago and
somebody was like oh yeah I do like 80%
of the sets on my strengths that I would
do for hypertrophy you see a lot of
people do that where they're like oh I
used to do ten sets of squats now I'm
doing eight by five it's like yeah what
are you doing bro like you're gonna a
it's gonna be a lot of wear and tear and
be like if you're if your long term goal
is to be a more jacked guy then you're
actually it's really defeating the
purpose of what you're trying to achieve
so I'm all for strength training like
Mike and I come from a strength
background or strength sports like power
sports so we're never gonna thumbs down
strength but just keep in mind like why
are you training for strength when you
could be training for recent citizen
which although is more boring and less
sexy it does have a more profound effect
for a long term so let me tell you guys
another little clue in on the design of
the templates and something that James
and I I actually just ran through the
editing James did on this in the face
potentiation chapter of the book as you
can tell we're getting close to the end
of the poem which is really good when I
wrote this part originally it struck me
as is when you write a book you discover
a lot of stuff you actually learn a lot
of stuff writing a book because when you
have to really put your thoughts down
completely I have made a goddamn sensor
like oh my god this implies like three
other things so one thing that James and
I sort of figured out is like the active
rest phase does a lot of what the recent
citizen phase does except faster because
it's only two weeks long as opposed to
taking a whole month of lower volumes
and then so we have to justify
desensitization phases which is one of
the reasons why in the physique
templates you'll notice the
resuscitation phase is only two or three
weeks long it's really kind of an active
rest phase does that ones or one of
those weeks as a dealer so we ended up
having to say why is resuscitation when
is rosanna position better than active
rest and the answer is in beginners and
intermediates who still need to develop
technical proficiency in the lift and to
be honest and this is not something we
mentioned in the book but you guys get
bonus content here rp+
um to be honest it's because they get to
keep the culture of lifting and not get
bored and fly off the fuckit because a
lot of times a you tell beginners hey
listen you trained super hard last four
months you're the man now two weeks come
almost basically off whoo I
fuck that and there's gonna Dom
hypertrophy shit anyway you might as
well be like okay here is the next month
of we're gonna go heavy lower volumes to
cool everything off and at least the
heaviest fun ready keeps another culture
of lifting and for the actual benefit it
lets them perhaps get a little stronger
perhaps James I reworded that for your
request oh she's a clearly correct to
anybody and and also just to keep
working on the technical patterns
improve their technique in those lifts
improve their stimulus to fatigue ratios
for future lifting because they still
don't really know what the fuck they're
doing I mean especially in a maintenance
phase you can improve your squat
technique so much because look the
pressures off you don't have to get a
hypertrophic stimulus you go in there
you pick a pretty light weight or
moderate weight if you do it for very
few sets and reps you can really focus
on technique because fundamentally you
know it's a maintance phase and really
there's no muscle to gain there's no fat
to lose they're not risking anything so
it's a really good time to improve
technique and and keep solidifying that
culture of training but to be completely
honest for advanced individuals and we
do mention this in the book you've been
trading more than 110 years for sure and
more than five years for many people
resented ization phases can probably be
replaced by active rest phases in most
cases and then after only two weeks you
get almost full resus of ization because
you've barely been doing shit and all
your injuries heal because you've barely
been doing shit which means that like
you know you train hard for six months
then you take two weeks but almost off
like one week of barely anything in one
week almost completely off and that is
actually a really good way to train you
do get the responsive is a shit effect
but in a shorter time the which is again
why James and I when people say like can
I do a longer maintenance pace than four
weeks like there has to be a need for
that sort of thing
four weeks is already playing long to do
everything if you do want to make it
longer than maybe you can make it a
strength phase but then you need to make
it nice and long eight weeks 12 weeks to
get a lot of strength annotations go so
I totally agree with all those points
and like just one other thing to
consider is that we usually are under
the assumption that the person is doing
the training and concurrently doing some
type of dieting and so one of the
problems that you run into is two weeks
of active rest is plenty enough to get
the recent citizen effect that you want
but it might not be enough time to
actually get the metabolic effects of
the diet and that you want right so a
lot of the times will say
just run it for longer do a recent
ization period because maybe they had
been doing a diet and they need some
time to kind of stabilize their body
weight or something like that or even
they just finished a mass phase and they
just need some time literal literal time
at that body weight to allow their set
points to come back up a little bit or
vice versa so sometimes like you we can
we can look at it from the training only
side but usually we look at it from the
holistic side and we say so you might
only need two or three weeks but what
are you going to do for the rest of the
you know the diet that you still are
running at that time so that's kind of
the problems so that's why we usually
kind of recommend the Risa decision
phase just because it fits nicely into a
kind of blocky type schedule so but if
you're advanced you could absolutely not
do that so long as you've met the
criteria for whatever diet stuff that
you're doing at the same time
excellent games that's actually the only
other reason why we'd extend one of
those phases for a what a single meso of
strength focus even contribute to any
significance I was thinking of using a
month my month of recent isolation
between massing and cutting to just get
my strength up a little because so I
think our normal stances here we can't
actually promise you any strength gains
it's possible but it's also possible
that you won't get any straight games
that it just be all gear shifting at the
end of the day you won't really get much
out of it so and it depends - like how
you want to define the strength gain
because let's say you had been doing
dumbbell bench press for your
hypertrophy mesocycle and then you
switch to strength and you switch to
barbell well you're actually just going
to be making improvements for the first
like two or three weeks just from
switching to barbell right how much of
that is true like strength improvement
and the barbell lift versus just the
novelty effect of kind of refining that
technique in the acute sense there's a
little bit of both going on so it's very
difficult to determine so again that
pays lip services to what Mike said like
it's probably worth doing it for two
months because you're going to get the
initial recalibration of either using a
heavier load or using a new movement or
some combination of both so you got to
recalibrate a little bit and then see
where your strength goes after that
because it's just it's oh it's noise
it's just it's it's a noisy mess at that
point just really figure out and
actually one of the things that I
finished the individualization chapter
and one of the markers of progress that
Mike mentioned that I thought was really
good was has your rep strength increase
for a new exercise at the beginning of a
block or beginning of a mesocycle that's
a guaranteed way to know like if you
haven't done
barbell bench in a while and you just
put up a number that you would have
never hit before at like 4:00 from fail
you got stronger homie and that's
another good example of that but more
often than not it's like you're going to
be back to a weight that's kind of in
your your wheelhouse and then your
performance will kind of creep up creep
up creep up and then what happens after
two or three weeks that's how you know
if you really got stronger or not yeah
so meet in this phase is a real good way
finding out if you got stronger and
probably does it much more than that yes
all right
Eden says hi Lincoln James I have a
question about a client I have their
weekly I have in their weekly schedule
they do mostly different shifts last
shift legs most weeks so he has some
weeks where he can compete complete all
six days within a week but then some
weeks it takes him a week and a half to
complete the six days due to his 12-hour
shifts making him not want to train
after them not wanna train fuck does
that mean brother he's eager to do six
days so he can get all the volume he can
in the week so doing less days isn't an
option for him will this impact anything
in terms of muscle building or is it
something that we just have to make do
with can't complete all six days so my
question back to you I just can't answer
is what does he do on the weeks after he
misses some days does he try to rush and
make them up does he do eight days a
week or is it just he keeps getting
pushed back if it keeps it both if those
are fine
I think if he keeps if he does an 8th
session week above a week before his
four sessions so long as it's paired to
his ability of recovery it's fine and
even if he pushes the week's you know he
has a six-day base and then he pushes
and pushes it pushes it so like a four
week mezzo really takes him six weeks to
finish I think it's also fine but
basically when he's able to he does six
days and when he's not he does less
that's pretty decent way to all regulate
as long as you can keep him seen and not
doing anything stupid like trying to
cram too many days when he isn't
prepared to do them I think that's
totally fine you do have some downsides
there in the structure of the program
getting elongated for too much and stuff
like that
knows in advance he wouldn't be able to
train in the next couple of days he can
do a little bit of functional
overreaching other two days before I'd
be more advanced critique but I got it
on its face I don't think it's it's a
bad thing James I don't think it's a bad
thing either and this is one of those
times where you might use kind of like a
nonlinear approach or like a I guess
like a nonparametric mesocycle not yes
right where you may not just session
numbers exactly you say like you have
six training sessions and then you have
one mandatory rest day where like after
day whatever you can make up whatever
day you want let's just say after day
six you have to rest and then you have
maybe two rest days that you can auto
regulate based on your schedule and and
needs right so you can either back load
them or front load them depending on the
weekend depending on the situation and
that's fine so if effectively you have
like a nine day microcycle which is kind
of weird but it ends up just being
easier that way where you can just say
like okay you just have to go through
one through six you just repeat the
cycle wherever they end up on whatever
days they are that's it you're not going
to have the best in terms of circadian
rhythms in terms of like doing the same
things at the same times per week so
that's out so that's a definitely a
downside but jobs a bigger priority than
training at this point right so it's
just an unfortunate situation part of
life and we just say okay you know what
you got your six days it's not a it's
not a seven-day microcycle maybe it ends
up being a 10-day Micra cycle or
something like that but that's fine
totally not a big deal you can do pretty
well doing that as well yeah James can
you speak to people that say they want
that say they're going to get all the
days done like at what point would you
cut off a client who's decided I'm gonna
do the 60 non-parametric program and you
look at their average mesocycle and it's
an average of three days per week like
at what point do you state look I hate
to break it to you but you're failing
yeah we don't need to do this you can
just do three days I think if we're
talking hypertrophy training and in the
hypertrophy training with the context of
like I am trying to gain muscle or
maintain muscle like massing or cutting
right four to six is kind of that sweet
spot like if you're if you're doing less
than four to six you're mostly doing
maintenance training at that point right
so if you get down to like three or less
on average at that point it might be a
good
you just reassess your goals and just
say like what am I really trying to do
here let's just do maintenance for a
while until my job situation is more
calm more maybe I can look into changing
it up or something like that but there's
just kind you have to have that
reassessment of relaxed realistic
expectations like if you have to take
three training days in a row and then
five off entirely and then one training
day and then another three days off and
then four days of training it's just
it's too messy at that point I don't
know so I for me I think if you can't
get like an average of at least four
days per week consistently it's time to
re-evaluate the goals yeah because a lot
of people think they can do that shit
like I'm gonna do six days and like I
know you think you're gonna do six days
but you have three weeks where you've
done two days we really need a six day
rotator maybe we'll do a three day
rotator if you can't draw and three days
is like great for maintaining your
muscle maintaining your cardiovascular
fitness and general health outcomes
stuff like that but it's unrealistic to
think that you're gonna be like a super
jacked guy or girl training on average
three days per week right so at that
point it's more of an issue of like
expectations and in reality like what
what do we really think is gonna happen
here not much yeah yeah James I just
wrote down your idea for nonparametric
training by the way oh I'm full of good
shit today apparently motherfucker you
know where that's gone all right a man
who only uses his free time for one
thing breaking the most intense
cybernetic defense systems of the world
Daniel hacker and hanging out with
Ashley Kavanagh that's right that's very
similar those two things someone asked
about this a long time ago I don't
remember your answer so here I am again
what to do if someone has an average to
fit bill genetically oh I see average to
fit bill to fit billed genetically has
stretchy skin will it subside when
someone gets really really lean or is it
one of these things that someone just
has to live with I don't know man I've
met people who were like over fat and
lost weight and they had extra skin yeah
I don't know if I've ever met someone
where I was just like damn do you do
that stretchy skin like yeah I've always
been like this bro Stretch Armstrong
over there you got Daniel I don't know
I guess I'm not like if let's assume
it's the former fat person and it says
well it subside when someone gets really
lean no you just have to live with it
does it does decrease a little bit over
time but not as much as you would like
to think and if it's a lot of excess
skin surgery definitely fixes that
problem yeah and even like even getting
more muscular like if somebody gets real
thin and then you actually get them to
beef up overtime
you can't put on that much muscle to
actually fill out all the skin that's a
common misconception to people like oh
I'll just get jacked and I'll look
normal it's like ah you look better yeah
better what you want sort of depends on
where the the skin is like if if it's uh
on your quads and your glutes you may be
able to get muscular enough to really
fill it out if but mostly that kind of
skin is on your abs and there's no
waiting increase your midsection path
much we're just going to look awful if
you did right there
fuck that look you uh there's a fat guy
he pulls out this shirt anymore see like
going like hey all right next question
you've said time and time again the
director there we go is that there it is
mm-hmm unless one has deemed if their
abs need to appear thicker a lot men's
physique Herman's have Lewy body
believed you said the compound spine
stabilizing work is enough to keep the
ABS nice and tight potentially even
hypertrophy dose lightly well not
potentially for sure hypertrophy them
slightly being that this is all the
subsequent case why is it that one
starts to do a direct ab training that
ABS gets so beyond rocked because direct
AB training trains you way harder than
anything you've trained with before and
will hypertrophy you weigh more than
anything you have before but what we're
saying is that hypertrophy is just
unnecessary for most things till and
unless you eat them and the the
abdominal training you get from the
normal hypertrophy training stuff is not
exclusively but largely isometric so I
mean really you're getting a whole
different life type of loaded contract
at that point it's a completely novel
stimulus you've been mostly doing
isometrics now you're adding loaded
concentric eccentric it's just your
body's like holy fuck what is this it's
not just any exercise
type of exercise which was real real big
deal
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works alright for physique do you
find it's really difficult to set as a
cycle of macro cycle goals I find that
having bodyweight goals depending on
phone and massive Clinton is legitimate
but besides that any other type of goals
set me Sam it's me and I'm projecting
four others on the wrong path if you set
performance goals like I want to see you
another X for the set by rep scheme may
run the risk of prioritizing a movement
and its progression of the expensive the
program because that's the only goal you
set if you said body goals like I want
to add a half-inch to my quads for arms
another six months again I don't like
those goals don't hold me on this it's
super hard to track because of
bodyweight modify fluctuations up or
down sweating in the macro cycle goal in
addition I found that if I focus on
circumference of Lhasa measurement I
become so obsessed with measuring that I
become even more neurotic than I already
am there's no fun for anyone especially
myself in a barbell sport it's so easy
to set measurable goals did you lift
more way to get more reps you know speed
sport it's easy did you run that mile on
hundred meter faster than last time in a
combat sport it's easier did you make
people tap or knock them out you
couldn't six months ago how do you go
about setting goals for physique so I
will actually have some insight here
there are three kind of goals there are
process goals performance goals and
outcome goals process goal is I am
setting this goal to show up to the gym
six times per week and train as hard as
I need to that science tells me to train
the eject a performance goal is am i
hitting the kind of numbers and are er's
and short term strength improvements
that are going to get me where I need to
go into long term and an outcome goal is
like actually getting six inch whatever
arms for the first time for six inch
arms six inch so people start out with
five inch arms James don't kill drew
shows ready get six inch arms but you
just never grow in there we go what
so basically that's that and an
interesting insight from sports
psychology which is funny because one of
our YouTube questions today is by on
Milo Wolff and he says that he wants to
see more sports eight questions on here
and we do have an answer for his
questions they sport psychology relevant
revelation is this it is very important
to set and stick to process goals it is
somewhat important to set them stick to
performance goals
it is not very more than to set and
stick to outcome goals because if your
process and your performance is on track
the outcomes probably gonna happen if
they're not on track the outcomes
probably not gonna happen for example
how many fighters set the goal of with
knocking out the guy you're next you
know tap them out or knock them out of
your next competition all these fucks at
the same goal how many of them do it
just one really right or one per fight
so what was wrong well let's put
genetics aside what kind of process
goals do they have like one of the guys
showed up to the gym three days a week
the other guys six days a week who do
you think's going on average right what
about performance cool one of the guys
is passing people's guards like crazy
and landing punches on his advanced
partners like crazy and one of them's
not like clearly I don't care what you
think is gonna happen in the fight I'm
betting on the guy that's doing better
in training right this has the higher
performance so in a roundabout way what
I'm saying is your goals and training
for hypertrophy hypertrophy especially
should be I'm going to fucking execute
the plan like you wouldn't believe your
performance goals should be as simple as
I'm going to make sure I hit the RI ours
that I'd want to hit and my reps don't
fall / keep going until then unless I'm
not able to do that and then I deal oh
and then your outcome goals or another
performance goal is body weight right
which is really easy to make sure you
hit if you are hating your training
later goddamn supposed to if you're
hitting your body with markers like
you're supposed to what is gonna happen
to your outcome well here's the reality
you have no idea if you're gonna hit
your outcome like let me get really
Randy here when people say I want to add
half an inch to my quads or arms what
can you possibly do
to add half an inch to your quads and
arms in six months well the answer is
every you can do everything optimally
just fucking do that why would you not
do that anyway hey if you want to add
you know and these goals are important
in a very fuzzy way like I want to make
my quads bigger well then you should
probably structure your program by the
way also a process goal now in such a
way that maximizes quad training and
possibly minimizes all forms of training
to give you some room in your weekly
systemic recovery ability it all comes
down to those process goals set the
process rules right make sure the
performance goals have you on track
dually your best and then the outcome
goals are really just hopes and they can
be cool things to think of but seeing in
six months like what if you had a half
an inch of quads in seven months and not
six did you fail no like something you
don't have a choice in a lot of these
you do fucking have a choice in if you
show up to the gym six times a week or
not you have 100 fucking percent choice
in that or 99.9 short of a fucking
asteroid destroying the gym you don't
have a choice in getting half an inch on
your quads or arms or six months that is
largely out of your control or even
after you set all of your shit straight
because you don't know genetics you
don't have you don't know how close your
my nuclear to me yeah James yeah those
are all excellent points and the one
thing that I think is really funny in in
terms of outcome goals and sports and
this is maybe less pertinent to
hypertrophy so I apologize for tangent
thing a little bit but it's just in
sports in general it's hard to have
really strong outcome goals because so
much of what you do is outside of your
control quite quite literally like an
asteroid like you said could hit the
field that you're supposed to play on
that night you're like well fuck I can't
I literally can't have this outcome goal
because they're an asteroid which drops
or sometimes it depends on like what
your opponent does you know like the old
saying like when the stars align like
everything fell into place well like
that's a huge that's a that's a
massively small probability that those
things will happen in many cases because
you're doing your best but the other
person that you're competing against is
often doing their best to and let's say
that your best is under dry conditions
and it happened to rain that day or some
you know just one of those weird things
where I like up it's hard to put outcome
goals like to take them overly seriously
because you are slave to the world in
some ways and some things you just can't
you just can't you have no control over
so the best use of your
time is using the goals that you are
focusing on the goals that you can
actually influence with your own efforts
right that's kind of the idea make
process goals enjoy the process keep
your performance goals realistic and
make sure that they're keeping you on
track so this the process is not
malfunctioning you don't know about it
and then your outcome goals just have
these sort of hazy desires of your head
and some how come goals are easier said
either you're done than others for
example striated glutes at my next show
you can pick which show you do and you
can diet hard enough to get striated
glutes almost as a rule those people can
do it if they just die hard enough
that's a fine outcome goal but you're
gonna have to be you know if you pick a
a goal I want striata glutes if this
coming show yeah you know that's already
not clearly cute you might need ID in as
hard as possible and still not get them
right because you just ran out of time
or something like that or you're holding
a lot of water so on and so forth so you
can't have outcome goals and
bodybuilding but you know especially for
muscle gain goals gee you know it's
really a lot of it's out of your hands
and jeans I just thought of another way
of another interesting thing happens in
sports or outcome goals a lot of teams
will lose to a team last year at the
tournament and say we're gonna be you
know we're gonna be stay to the
tournament this year and then state gets
bumped out in the first round at the
other end of the bracket or in the
second round
yeah still you would still win the
tournament but it's it against the
school you don't even hate you never
even got to play state that year like
god dammit this feels like not
bittersweet but kind of Sakura you know
you're like totally or like jarred
feather could be like you know what I
went to the Olympia this year I saw
those guys I bet you I could fucking I
could take it I bet I could get up there
and be mr. Olympia and then Phil Heath
shows up and you're like fuck yeah dude
that happens all the time in
bodybuilding I love it I love it it
would they say like this guy is the next
best thing and I keep done assholes
don't understand there's some kind of
person in a garage right now who does it
no good from bad
he doesn't know wrong from right he
doesn't know anything about bodybuilding
but he is already 290 and lean because
he's too goddamn stupid to be anything
else he's gonna show up and fuck
everyone in the ass right and like
actually interesting example of that is
like you know in the mr. Olympia the Lee
Haney era was drawing to a close and
people thought who's gonna be the guy to
take it it was only I think a year or
two before Haiti retired the Dorian
Yates showed off with people like holy
fuck
why kinds of guys before he showed up
eight people
some of those guys probably thought I'm
gonna be the one to take you dude what
about Ronnie fucking Coleman Ronnie came
in a fucking nowhere a year before
Dorian you retired like 1997 was a tough
year for Ronnie Coleman the 19 he wasn't
fighting Olympia like you could have
thought all sorts of things so when
people say like I want to win the
Olympia I think that's nice if it were
organized if it helps you to set your
process goals and performance goals and
it gets great but I think people value
outcome goals are way too goddamn much
I honestly think James let me know if
you think with us it allows them to sort
of sublimate their anxiety about their
goals like if they tell enough people
they want to be mr. Olympia it almost
makes them feel like they're sort of
halfway there oh yeah oh yeah people who
talk about their goals too goddamn it's
kind of like a weak-ass form of virtue
signaling like I have informations for
this which by default makes me that
person right like that's nice yeah
nobody gives a shit you anyone can say
they want to live in mr. Olympia I
literally mean anyone can fucking say
that
totally totally so yeah I'm with you on
all those points yeah it is I think it's
still worthwhile to consider outcomes
but you know for me like it's like the
icing on the cake like oh yeah I got
that thing that I wanted but it was more
important was like how I got there yeah
so like I think I'll come goals are kind
of like if you're hiking the the peak of
a mountain like you see it you sort of
it you know which way generally to go
and it keeps you full of hope like oh
and I get there it's gonna be great can
you say to a minute when you're gonna
get there know what is fundamentally
like you feel like oh I gotta get to the
mountain gotta gets the mountain what do
I do process put one foot in front of
the other put your crampons on put your
fucking snow gear on take it off go to
sleep get adjusted to the altitude
there's so many processes and there's so
many performance goals like okay we
gotta get four miles every day or we
don't make it to the summit by the time
the weather turns bad like those are the
relevant thing is now I'll tell you this
if someone remotely knows to go up and
has a really awesome performance that
are really really great process think
gonna beat you to the summit I don't
give a fuck how much you want to summit
does it matter because the doing is how
you get that shit to happen you know as
a an avid hiker there's nothing that
pisses me off more than like when I
spend the night before a hike like
programming my GPS with the exact track
route and I like make notes to myself if
I turn here look for these landmarks and
I have my super expensive leg gear my
pack my hat my sunblock everything with
my water haven't ended up
I do the hike I get to the top of mark
woo I prepped I made it and then some
like dildo guy in like flip-flops and
like you know like no shirt on just like
happens to just like walk up like oh hey
bro you made it up to us like son of a
bad this guy made it fuck yeah way over
prepared alright next question from mr.
Daniel hacker how long do you think it's
fair to say if one tries to do physical
activity that they can confidently say
it's not for them say someone who's
reasonably fit and wants to try a new
sport they're seemingly very passionate
about the activity and they really want
to learn we know that there are
activities that some people are just not
made to do so I shouldn't do and
personally I hate when I see people
trying so hard inactivated genetically
they just aren't well suited for well
yeah it depends on if what they're going
for if they're going to for being for
being good yes they're like it who cares
um would you say if one does set
activity two times a week for a year
with an emphasis on fun and technique
they don't make noticeable improvements
oh Jesus or really get enjoyment out of
it it's very educated for them to say
they tried their best but it's not for
them doing something once a week for a
month or two like many do when they want
to try something out it doesn't really
give them much more time to definitely
say they give it a try the people who
depend on the activity tell you this my
the toughest thing I've ever done as far
as like shit that took me a long time to
like was Jiu Jitsu Melissa Davis dr.
Melissa Davis dr. wife dr. white of
James as yasha calls her apparently
that's right that's right so she told me
as soon as I started you did sue she
goes just just shut your eyes for the
year just shut up and do it for a year
you're gonna hate it and then you're
gonna love it at the end of the year
that advice kept me from quitting
jiu-jitsu for sure I Oh Mel all of my
jiu-jitsu for that reason it actually
took me just six months probably because
I had wrestling background and I was
really strong so I started being able to
make sense of shit and beat people
faster meeting people it was really fun
making sense of jiu-jitsu is probably
even
so before that it's just you get eat all
the time and nothing makes any goddamn
sense um what I will say is once you've
got the basic flow of the activity like
you're going in like so for jujitsu
let's say for tennis for tennis
different because jiu-jitsu is very
specific to uh support tennis you know
how to hit a good forehand you don't
have a to the backhand you're playing
against people all the time you're
running up and down the court you just
generally good positions on you're
feeling your own swag and you're hitting
really well back at 40 got a good rally
going and you get to beat some people
that are not as good as you ever known
again if you don't like it at that point
you're never gonna fuckin like tennis
maybe not never but you're doing what
you're gonna be doing anyway it's just
you sort of weed a little bit more and
lose a little less as the competition
gets harder you don't even do that right
you just become better at doing those
things but if you don't like doing those
things when you're already relatively
competent you're not just probably not
gonna like them like I can totally
understand the awkward phase um being
sucky but like once you're well into
something and you're doing it and and
then now the games are gonna be more
linear than exponential it's just not
gonna change quality wise if you don't
already like it at least somewhat
chances of you growing into it I would
never say you're zero but this sure as
hell pretty well
James yeah I'm with you actually I was
gonna say it's one thing to suck at
something right it's another thing to
suck and not enjoy it at the same time
like if you're not enjoying it cut it
off at six months I mean at that point
like you have to be able to
differentiate those things like Mike
Mike said like and this is try I
wrestled as well like the first year of
wrestling is the same thing that might
describe but you just get your ass beat
the whole time you're like this and you
suck at everything
now you suck but like at some point you
get a win and practice like you you pin
somebody and you're like oh okay this is
great right so I think like um there's a
there's a difference between like
understanding that you're bad right and
there's a great adventure time quote
Jake says sucking at something is the
first step but becoming really good at
something I love that and it's it's one
thing to recognize that you're bad at
something but you're still having fun
doing it even if you're bad like
obviously doing good is more fun but if
you're having fun keep doing it if
you're if you suck and you're not having
fun why are you doing it why it's you
can't even justify it by saying I'm
having fun like just on to the next one
do something else yeah
the third component of that is are you
generally within what people can
describe as some kind of competence like
if you're doing jiu-jitsu and people see
you role after three or four months and
they can't tell what you're doing if
you're having as fast a contraction or
if you're actually cheated too
maybe you hate you Jitsu but you're not
actually doing it yet but like if you're
a blue belt people come into the white
belts you sweep them you submit them and
you take their back and all the stuff
you do it all the basic moves
and you're feeling you're like there's a
spin you know James I'm talking about
feeling your swag and sport you're like
I'm doing the sport as it's supposed to
be done often a hold of the flow state
right but yeah the flow state exactly if
you're in the flow state and both
externally confirmed by coaches and
internally felt by you and you still
don't like it
man you know dude I when Mel and I were
getting ready for our wedding we had to
take dance lessons and I could I could
get into the flow State for dancing but
I fucking hated it you know I could fool
myself into it and do a good job but I
fucking hated it and I have never not
taken another dance lesson since fuck
dance again exactly fun dancing stupid
how many times do you think it took me
to golfing to figure out it didn't like
it 1 1 yeah I want golf it was never
went again right it sucked I was like
where's the fat guys I'm supposed to
push where do I hit people yeah exactly
there's no fat guys now man yeah for
sure for sure so if you get into a flow
state and you're not using 100 percent
of a time and you still don't like the
sport like no shame I think no shame
yeah links sir so here's an easy one for
kickboxing if within several weeks of
getting relatively decent kicks and
punches
technique-wise we don't totally feel
like you're on strings you're not
getting some kind of enjoyment out of a
real like zip like some pad hit or just
one of those just connections with a bag
with your kick if that doesn't bring you
some kind of sick joy you know you know
like in boxing because it's just more
the same eventually it's other people's
faces that you're doing that to and
hurts worse than the bag by the way for
sure hurts worse and also like yeah even
beating people you can be people in all
kinds of stuff you know like beating
people while you hate the activity is
not gonna make you want to life like the
activity you know like so if you don't
like the fundamentals of a sport once
you get your swag going yeah all right
well I think that's it for the UH the
pre listed questions my bad on that burp
it just came out
we've got YouTube questions this week
yep we do should i do my screen share
yes please okay
I do the screen and I do the share I Can
Has you show Bob's
I am have Bob's do you see it yeah
okie doke let's get to the questions
couple here to end any power lift things
back can't rise memory never shut up hey
you that cat was going getting after
that last that last time was so elation
weeks while hunting MRV well a mind
muscle connection go down over the weeks
is it bad or okay I can always I always
feel I can squeeze the muscle the
hardest to find D load and fully
recovered yeah so like as fatigue
accumulates technique and my muscle
connection will will deteriorate to some
extent during accumulation you should be
able to have a slight increase at least
for the first half of it in my muscle
connection because your technique and
the exercises and practice it's getting
the my muscle connection should be going
up you can obviate that by just chasing
reps and forgetting about it all
together in which case we'll just
deteriorate from day one what you
shouldn't do so there's that but
generally speaking it should go up
through some of the accumulation phase
or at least not go down but when your
fatigue starts to really get high in the
last I would say what games two weeks
yeah yeah you can expect it to not be so
great and then you kind of know
that the shit is coming and you're gonna
have to deal out soon that's one of
those I guess we never formally
published this but just very
colloquially observational e reduction
in mind muscle connection is kind of a
leading indicator of systemic 4te like
you're flying if your performance is
still fine you're good but it's not
gonna last for a long time of this get
into that yeah so like during
overreaching periods it's a very common
symptom and then actually when you're um
if you've been using like the same
movements and you're at the end of a
block like so you've been doing the same
kind of movements for like three mezzos
sometimes you're mev gets up to like
close to your MRV levels right which is
you know either at the time or past the
time that you want to swap that exercise
but that's another instance where that
can happen so it's like planned
overreaching and like staleness
essentially yeah that gap if that
happens why if your best my muscle
connection is only in the first week of
accumulation for two methyls in a row
it's probably time to ditch that
exercise switch yeah totally all right a
really good question by Milo Wolff who
is whose Instagram memes I share all the
time and who is the gentleman actually
that does the transcription of our he
does the timestamps for a podcast oh
nice he says how would you use positive
illusions regarding sport psychology
with your athletes to facilitate
performance outcomes would you encourage
a narcissistic predisposition loving the
q and a's but i find often find the
sports psychology component a little
overlooked by the question asker as well
you can't fault the question askers for
that you got to ask these questions you
don't ask for milan and and to just be
very blunt and fair like Mike and I are
not sports psychologists we have a lot
of experience in sport and we have
probably some some things worth
mentioning but like we're definitely not
psychologists so any any psychology
advice would be prefaced by that saying
hey yeah there's probably better people
to ask but we'll give you what we think
yeah so if I understand your question
correctly what you're basically saying
is how do you ever tell your athletes
the Bassem narcissistic predisposition
it's like the thinking that athletes
have like I'm fucking invincible I'm a
fucking champion I'm fucking warrior
fuck all these other clowns um I think
that that can tend to help in in some
you know situations but is called
positive illusions for a reason and I
don't like for illusory things to be
with the reality often because if you do
blued yourself enough you can really
lose track of reality and then we do the
track of good training where you stand
performance wise you could miss estimate
how good you are so someone says hey are
you ready to turn pro from being amateur
and I mean you're like fuck yeah and
your coach is like not even close I
hated taking fights with certain people
so on and so forth trying certain things
in training that might backfire so what
I like to do is I like to save my own
personal where you would call
narcissistic predisposition for the day
of competition actually and really just
free just at various spontaneous times
during competition and I'm very aware
that this is not reality most of that
time I just do it for that enhancement
effects it for example when I enter like
a jujitsu gym not a gym sorry a
gymnasium or Hall in which the
competition is occurring and I'm in the
competition I'll generally tend to look
at other guys my size and they'd be like
look at this fucking piece of shit fuck
this fat cocksucker
I'm gonna fucking it'll last this person
I'm going to exert God's fucking will on
this person and I'm a fucking
unstoppable machine they should have
never put me in the same room with any
these people they're in mortal fucking
danger and then I'll go back to just
being a cool regular normal person and
saying hi to everyone and shaking their
hands and then right before the match
starts like when the guy's putting on
his James remember he'd put on that shit
on wrestling the ankle bent ya ankle man
so did you see sometimes you put that on
sometimes you put on a different color
belt or sometimes they just tell you
what you are like during that time when
we both come up to the desk like I'm
just like fucking asshole decided he's
still gonna sign up for this division he
didn't just run I'm gonna fucking like
I'm untouchable like that's what I'll
think and I'll just for hatred it's
super-super helps but the thing is like
if I thought that all the time
throughout the day throughout weeks of
preparation Jesus Christ I'd be a
goddamn mess and it's a shitload of
psychic psychic energy you're spilling
away to just probably should be doing
that so
you know if I if and when I coach
athletes on I'll usually use you know
those issues for positive delusions
right I would say to them like you're a
fucking champion
you're a fucking champion you're fucking
strong you're the shit let's go and you
know I need for them to agree with me
there's like what do you think what do
you think what do you think how you can
do them out of fucking I'm gonna fucking
win I'm gonna fucking win but I get
sweet let's go let's fucking murder
people and then as soon as they're done
you cool that diamond brick hey good job
everything is nice everything's calm and
then we ramp them up real close to
competition you don't want to like be on
the car ride for hours to jiu-jitsu
would be like fucking bore you're the
fucking man let's break glass link in
the car with our faces because that just
pisses away line energy so chill chill
chill chill spike and then chill back
down James yeah so there's actually a
really good book I'm gonna recommend
it's called conscious coaching by Brett
Bartholomew and it's a really great
resource nothing but really great things
about that yeah it's a really great book
it's it helps you identify like
personality traits within your athletes
and then how to adopt coaching
strategies that can facilitate the best
outcomes for them so I think what's
worth noting here is like positive
illusions might not be for everyone nor
might not be applicable in all
situations it might be one of those
things you have to kind of make a good
assessment of your individual with I
think I think positive illusions can be
useful to combat what is I think it's
actually called the Tiger Woods effect
which is basically people will tend to
crumble in the presence of someone they
think is like untouchable great and this
is like a well-documented effect you
know in the front and back in a variety
of different ways they've measured it
where like if Tiger Woods shows up it's
a good chance he's just gonna win just
because other people will be like in awe
of his presence right so that might be a
good way of kind of prepping someone to
prepare for those kind of effects where
you have some like god-like person who
shows up to compete and you want to
reaffirm if that person is just a human
being just like the other person is
possibly a good situation there but
again I would I would defer it to
someone else because I'm I'd be more I'd
be given the wrong advice more often
than not would be my guest yeah fuck you
know I actually have a real good
psychologically there's a strategy I
just fall into this line of thinking
when somebody really really good shows
up and this it just occurs in jiu-jitsu
gyms in general and like in competition
as well
it is especially gyms because you get to
go against guys that you would never be
competing
because you're not even you're about
where you differ qualify for the
competitions on a lot of people get
really shut down and they're going
against someone good it's really
sometimes works to think of what you
have to lose in what you have to gain
you have nothing to lose cuz you and
everyone else and him they or her they
think they're gonna fuck it with your
ass and if you get your ass beat
nobody's ever gonna judge you and like
that's kind of black not stud but what
if you can give them a little more
trouble than he thought what if you can
give him trouble trouble you've got
everything to gain that's fuckin awesome
like was that this really stupid fucking
movie which I love of course it's stupid
as fuck a fucking remake with the Medusa
and the fucking owl James the tiger of
clash of titans oh my god yeah so the
you know the remake of the 2001 yeah the
guy he asked one of the dudes the main
guy sick why don't you ever smile he's
like uh you know the gods kill everyone
I loved like I'll smile when I see it
God died or some shit and then as
Medusa's getting fucking her head
chopped off and this guy's already
turning to stone he smirks and I was
like I kind of want to be that guy just
fucking real stuns when they show up
like you did so I'm like I'm gonna be
the guy that you're gonna have to really
use your a game on and walk away being
like fuck that man fuck that guy I
should hope not everyone else at this
gym is as good as him you know like even
if you beat me it's gonna be like not
you're confident not your best so it's a
really cool way to think about god
you're going up there are studs you're
like what if I I'm the guy to crack this
fucking clown what if I'm the gun the
chink in his armor what if I managed to
take a fucking just one ankle pick and
there's a couple minute there's a couple
seconds left and I'm not to go you know
what what if right and then all of a
sudden if you're that guy back you know
think about what he feels like if you're
good and he starts grappling with you're
playing tennis or whatever and he packs
picks up on the fact that you're fucking
good he's gonna be like Jesus Christ I
have everything to lose like I don't
want to be that guy I would rather be
the underdog in many cases not all then
the guy who's won before because when
you won before you clutch that shit like
crazy and you're really averse to making
a lot of athletic moves doesn't have to
fuck this up don't fuck this up whereas
if you don't you know if you have
nothing to lose there's nothing to fuck
up just play your game
totally totally all right
Lotus dreams wow that is a beautiful
beautiful you do if you choose most of a
dick licker 69 exactly says he knots I
got a question regarding the importance
of feeling a pump or a lack thereof a
lack thereof with certain exercise I
have always had and still have over
multiple years the impression that
incline bench of any kind can I get me a
proper pump in the chest and musts
combined with a flat or decline version
on the other hand even the shittiest
exercise selection with a decline like
angle takes me almost zero effort to
achieve an in understand pump and heart
contraction I've never stopped using the
incline nor select when I myself but I'm
asking myself with my body feeling
consistently tells me to drop incline
angles to do more flat or declining
those varieties that's a good idea but
should I still stick to it for my upper
chest my incline work how much do you
value those proxy variables over
performance and anatomical programming
logic it depends on where you feel you
pump so like if you feel your pump in
the upper chest normal flat presses rock
on yeah I suspect that if I had to take
a guess at what your chest looks like
you probably have a larger lower chest
and a pretty small upper chest if that's
the case then it makes perfect sense
while you get a huge bump in the lower
chest because it's just more responsive
and there's more muscle there and it's
probably more fast which then the upper
chest some combination of those so if
that's the case you continuing to do
those lower chest exercises it's great
for your lower pecs great for maximum
overall chest development but probably
not gonna get you anywhere you want to
go and in the clavicular upper packs so
they keep you doing upper pecs you can
do some reverse grip work that's been
shown to stimulate the clavicular fibers
pretty well and or incline work of some
kind and it might just be that your
upper pecs just don't really get a
really good pump you might have to do
more sets you will get a pump eventually
just as few more sets that just might be
the tale of the tape there so how much
do you value proxy variables with a
performance well you know you can
improve your incline benching
performance by just getting bigger
triceps and just have nothing to show
for in your upper pecs
so performance can only go so far
so I think you know how bigger your
upper pecs is mostly of how do you
perform on the incline movements
specifically like incline flyes and how
do you know how you're performing on
them if you're not even doing them so I
would say that if you want bigger upper
pecs probably doing that is a good idea
and then if you want bigger overall
taxes especially lower impacts than the
decline stuff was super great idea James
yeah so it's actually a really
interesting question so you know like
what do we think about like the pump
versus like what he's called anatomical
programming logic so that's a really
good question I think that like any of
the measures that we use as kind of a
car get ome V indicators like s
standalone measurements are probably not
that great just by themselves the pump
being one of them right so they an
example here might be like could you do
could you modify your technique in the
incline bench to get a massive mind
muscle connection and see significant
performance increases week to week while
still not getting a pump yeah it's
feasible it's just less likely right it
but it's can happen so usually like you
want to see all those things kind of
fall in line where you said like I got a
pump I have a good mind muscle
connection I can feel like the stretch
and the tension throughout the muscle
I'm trying to train and my performance
generally is improving or is at least
stable if I've already kind of figured
out my blowin landmark stuff that would
be ideal so I'd say weighing the pump
over the other factors like feeling the
tension feeling the my muscle connection
full range of motion performance
improvements I would not weigh one of
those over three or four others that
would be my opinion ideally you would
want to find exercises that hit all of
them really nicely and yeah I think with
the with the incline and Mike feel free
to chime in here I think when people
don't do the incline well it's because
they do powerlifting incline where they
tuck their elbows down like this right
where in reality you should be coming
out to the side right yeah I'm really
getting out wide like this and this is
one of those like quick fix guaranteed
do it tonight like just do a warm-up set
instead of tucking your elbows down and
touching right go all the way out to the
side as far as you can tall like a wide
grip style and let your arms come out
180 degrees and you'll feel it like a
massive pump in your your chest it'll
might have to play with the grip width
and stuff like that but it's usually
more of a technique issue like an
individualizing the technique to get the
most SFR out of the exercise so that
will be my
take on that I think pumps important but
I wouldn't out I wouldn't like throw an
exercise out just because you didn't get
a pump if you were getting positive
responses on other markers as well so
usually that would mean like how do I
get the pump in there I modify my
technique oh sure yeah all right
fusion says I finally reached Martin
Perkins advanced straight standard using
his RP t program my body composition has
changed significantly from the start
however I still don't look like I lift
what fully-clothed Athletica do either
does Martin just kidding since he
started using drugs he looks like he
lives I guess do I have unrealistic
expectations what should I do
maybe I should do higher volumes how
would I implement this I feel
disappointed because after reading
Martin's fuck-around itís article which
is a very good article actually I'm
dedicating years to it
I thought his method was the best way to
train while careful with dogma and take
you're onto something and I'm wondering
if it's higher volume 10 to 15 cents per
week Mike I'm gonna interrupt you I'm
sorry to do this be cautious before
opening those those links I don't you
know just oh I'm not clicking on shit
okay we're on to say we're on this and I
was just like I mean I'm sure these
people are genuine but at the same time
I don't want something inappropriate
yeah thanks for reminding with there's
no fucking way Uncle John has shit I've
always been told that mean games
approach isn't the best for sighs dude
if this was a bot algorithm that would
be an impressive algorithm for sure an
oddly specific bot I've always just
liked look a troll like oh here's like a
dip pit you know sure Nazi propaganda
yeah I've always been told that lean
gains approaches the best for size due
to its low volume isn't the best precise
isn't the most precise to avoid but I
trust the process my physique or
something like blah please give me
advice thank you
so it doesn't matter what your physique
goal is in all because you just want to
be bigger this is pretty simple right
Martin Burke ends approaches low volume
which is a good way to have beginner
gains and a great way to get stronger
which is why you reached as advanced
strength standards about size standards
and if you raised your training volume
most people would experience a
significant increase in hypertrophy over
time that's absolutely correct there's
no surprise about this whatsoever the
entire time I read it I was like that
makes air
three bit of perfect sense it's up to
someone someone says hey you know I got
better hypertrophy on a low volume plan
than a higher volume plan I'm always
like oh that's interesting or underpaid
to five volumes on so forth and maybe
just you know have a really low MRV and
high or low mev but this this makes
perfect sense so I would say that how
would you go about it how would you
implement this if you just want someone
else to follow also from northern Europe
I would just try man at one of my events
women's programs real smart and she's a
higher frequency high-volume
come to the dark side come to the
Commodore P got-damn to the volume
landmark so like this out right yeah Mr
P baton so look up some some stuff you
know there's plenty of folks doing
higher volume stuff and really if you
just do what you were doing with Martin
stuff just stop going to failure stop -
roughs one drop short of failure and add
some more statuses you know you like it
just don't jump into like like I think
another common misconception is exactly
that I was going to say a lot of people
like volume okay ten by ten gvt right
like no I mean I mean at some point
maybe but not not not going from
straight like a strength program to that
you got a way way up to that at some
point it's like a map of European
countries that volumes a second marketer
accounts from Sweden and slow volume you
German volume training let's get around
right over you literally skip right over
meadow and the Netherlands doing I like
logical high volume like I'm just gonna
go straight to jail it's the Mima game I
think it's the angry lady it's like gvt
and then there's nano is like the little
head
alright last for today variation
question from Pete and Dawson if
maintenance while you were so easily
chief of why do people shrink when they
get off gear wouldn't a new muscle be
easy enough to mean team very curious
about this so having a multi-component
answer for you and then James will fill
up links so first of all there's two
types of size you put on with gear one
is actual expansion of myofibrils that
is the contractile element muscle tissue
and the other is the expansion of the
sarcoplasm which is all the other
bullshit including fluid inside the cell
when you start here you gay
load of summer plasm and the more gear
you taking our sarcoplasm you have you
also put on more myofibrils
but the sarcoplasm happens within two
weeks and days sometimes so they just
get really swollen you look fucking
super compact so if you kept all of your
minor finals as you came up here you
would still lose depending on what
you're taking Bocking 3 to 230 pounds
but well if you're taking a slim and
growth and a shit in a couple grams of
gear that is how that is dozens of
pounds of intracellular water you're on
a fucking water balloon right and it
makes you gives you that round shape
that drugged-up pro bodybuilders have it
you can't really replicate with anything
short of the best genetics of all time
right so you can lose a shitload of size
it still do is no actual muscle as far
as contractile tissue is concerned as
far as my freckles are concerned
secondly a ton of people when they come
off gear they train basically not at all
or train so easy that it doesn't even
count as ministry a lot of them just
stop trading all together and a ton of
them when they come off
stop eating as much as they're supposed
to so they just lose weight because gear
makes you hungry and when you're off to
here you don't feel hungry at all and
you're like what fucking I do is I don't
even train and a lot of guys we would
take a look at a population of people
when they come off of gear the most
notable people that come off gear or
bodybuilders at the end of their careers
so of course they're fucking not gonna
be as big as they were because they
barely trained they eat way way less and
all the intracellular water is off so
let's put it the other way if someone
still is gonna get back on gear later if
they're still training relatively hard
above maintenance volume and
consistently is another big thing too
and if they if you account for all the
same water or you keep most of the
muscle that you gained on gear probably
almost all of it some of that muscle
just is no longer being appropriately
kept up by the anabolic signaling that's
no longer there for the gear like some
of the muscle you just lose because the
anabolic drive is so fucking low your
catabolism goes up like crazy right this
is slightly different
venous volume is so easily achievable
for people of the scene - your status
switchgear status on or off to no longer
nearly as easily achievable so the first
part of your question was actually an
assumption that it's easily achievable
across drug classes which that's not the
case but if they attend to all those
qualities most if not all of them muscle
loss they're gonna see is just
exclusively intracellular water which
means that about three weeks after they
get back on they're gonna be about as
big as they ever were and but didn't
gain muscle that fucking fast they
gained intracellular contents and all of
a sudden boom they're done so one of the
cool things about this is there's
actually a wisdom to believe it or not a
wisdom to a probiotic oh there's like
news drugs a lot of these guys come off
and they look like fucking total shit
and you're like oh my god this guy lost
15 pounds of muscle there's no way he's
gonna come back and you're like oh my
god the Olympia is at eight months and
four weeks later you see videos of him
doing what the everliving
fuck and he's like yeah I got that COG
shit fuck you what do you think was
gonna happen Shawn Rhoden did this Kevin
LeBron did this a bunch tons of guys do
this
there's a fucking Brazilian 212 guide
lardo Correa eduardo Correa was on
Instagram posting pictures I thought
someone fucker retired forever yeah like
a couple surgeries he had a couple kids
he was gone for like a few years and he
looked like become busk Euler regular
dude like what fuck and then he came
back and competed early this year is
better than he's ever looked fucking
jacked on his mind Lina's fuck you're
like how the muscle was always there it
was just the cellular water shield 30
pounds of intracellular water looks
exactly like 30 pounds of new muscle 30
pounds new muscles a lot of fundamental
to ten you know it mentioned the fat
loss at the same time so someone could
have could be 50% body fat at 210 pounds
and then 5% body fat at 240 pounds those
don't look remotely like the same person
so they're not actually losing muscle in
many cases the muscle loss is minimal
but it looks like it because of what you
saw your water and all the other factors
I mentioned but there is some muscle
loss if you take a lot of gear versus
none because look look if you take no
gear at all you're not going back to a
regular environment you're going back to
environment with basically no
testosterone shit loads of estrogen
bunch other craft even a really good
post psychotherapy can only attend to
some of that stuff and for a while
you're just not banging all cylinders
and you can lose muscle James yeah that
was really good in addition to those
points like you have to consider
that the the drugs are giving you a
super maximal like benefit to the volume
landmarks that you're operating in right
so it's like now you are operating in
this super maximal range when you come
out they shift back down and then the
first couple of weeks and even months
like Mike said you're you're in the
shithouse even if you have good PCT so
you're gonna drop all that below kind of
bloat wait essentially you're not going
to lose a ton of mile fibrils in that
initial period but once you have to
adjust your training back to quasi
normal it's going to slowly actually
start affecting you you just won't be
able to train at the volumes and
intensities that you used to anymore
because you were training at a super
maximal level so you get kind of a 3/3
punch there where it's like you D bloat
right now the conditions that you in
aren't even normal they're subpar right
so far from normal so you're gonna have
really shitty training for a little
while
most people get discouraged in that
period and they just kind of do fuck-all
training and then when they actually get
back to normal they kind of just look
like shit right and they'll be eating a
lot of guys stop eating man and they
might actually just start to lose some
of their mouth fibular hypertrophy at
that point right which is the stove
that's when they really start to look
like shit so it's gonna have like a
combination of factors the actual muscle
mass usually doesn't go away for several
several months but the blood stuff comes
off pretty quick so that's kind of the
deal so it's not so much that like it's
not that maintenance volume isn't it
isn't easy to maintain it's hard to go
from like a super maximal load down to a
normal load and maintain the same amount
of most semesters yeah but it's just
funny going back to the body when there
isn't like you've seen guys say like man
I saw what's-his-name at the Arnold like
just at the Expo not at the competition
and this isn't Olympia competitor like I
saw what's his name he's look at fuck
it's bald and fuck the guys later met
guy that's like said my guy who's like
cruisin on two grams of trans at all
times and the bodybuilder he was talking
about is basically like I'm 250 tester
on nothing for a couple of months and
then no right around April that
bodybuilder started gas up and then they
show up so they live in you're like oh
shit
there's no before you judge a
bodybuilder uses drugs like well he's
not that big you have no idea where in
his cycle or even office cycle he is and
you know that's why they believe
competitions folks because that really
gets in shape at the same time who can
really compare ass mm-hmm well that was
a good one is that the last one I was
cuz that's one good one
and now drugs hey whoo all right let's
see so next week I'm gonna be in Florida
on Monday so I'll be in Florida on
Tuesday I probably can still do the
webinar same time yeah yeah we all right
uh same time zone so should be pretty
good
oh yeah that's true we'll be in the same
time zone you want just come to Florida
no I'm just kidding I'll see in Florida
America's butthole now that's Indiana
okay yeah so we'll just plan on the same
time folks for those of you who
struggled with the new rp+ formats bear
with us I had somebody work on it for me
today so hopefully you should be able to
post questions
nice and easy in the forum as they
usually were and for those of you
joining us on YouTube thanks for tuning
in and keep posting those good questions
we had some really good ones this week
so very nice job these homies later