hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's video is about
training for bigger forms and better
grip
and yeah we left in my giggle for a
reason
it's hilarious so let's take a minute
right now
to get all the you know what kind of
jokes youtube algorithm well let me say
the word
out of our heads by reciting a few
noted now on to the serious matter of
getting super jacked forearms i sure
hope they look a little jacked on camera
who knows all right
two real topics in this video
one is how to get bigger forearms and
the other is how to get a better grip
almost the same thing but not quite
forearm training first for hypertrophy
all the answers are really in the
hypertrophy training guide central hub
on renaissance periodization you can
link right through to it in the
description no big deal has a whole
enormous article on how to train your
forums talking about frequency volume
periodization exercise selection video
instructional all that stuff and for a
low
easy payment of completely free with no
click date sign up anything you can just
have it right now
but
as a quick summary so really the hyper
free part of this video is like just go
to the hypertrophy training hub central
guide and it'll all be there
as a quick summary here is a four-point
little situation
first choose effective forearm exercises
mostly curling not extension why well we
want big calves how many like you know
calf extensions do you do where you know
you're trying to hit your tib anterior
bro
people sometimes ask like hey how do i
hit my tibia ass interior and my first
question is why do you care and the real
answer physiologically is both the
anterior part of the calf and the
anterior part of the forearm are really
small muscles that just aren't very
growth prone they're designed primarily
for endurance they're
gee whiz you know you can pound them
into oblivion using these same
principles and i promise you they'll
change very little and you'll be really
upset so most of your form training
should be curling first second you want
to find the rep ranges in which those
good exercises provide the best stimulus
judged by your mind muscle connection
like some form curls you're like i don't
know what the hell i'm doing my elbows
hurt some mind muscle connection is
crazy like oh my god i feel like my
forearms are gonna explode if you get a
ball or forearm pump that's a really
good thing and of course disruption to
where someone's like hey grab that can
of coke right after you did like five
sets of curls for forums and you're like
i can't i can't physically grip anything
anymore or you dropped your phone
talking to someone or something you
crash your car while driving on the
freeway gee that got dark really fast
hopefully not that ladder one but in any
case mind muscle connection pumps and
disruption make sure they're there don't
just go through the motions if you go
through the motions and someone's like
hey is your forearm training feeling
good you're like i don't know this is
supposed to feel like anything you
wouldn't say that about any other muscle
don't say it about forearms as well
train them frequently three to six
sessions a week is a good idea because
they recover really fast much less is
probably not a good idea here's the
thing if you take form growth seriously
say it say it yourself in your head
masturbation joke
then you know
doing it once a week is not uh probably
gonna cut it you know like the quads if
you disrupt them once a week they take a
long time to recover their growth curves
last a long time it'll probably work
form training once a week that's
probably not going to cut it are you
really sore and weak for a week straight
after forum training
another amazing masturbation joke that i
simply won't make because i'm better
than that and so are you but real talk
you can recover from that stuff fast so
it's easy to do frequently and get
better and better and better results
lastly this is a big one
progress on purpose it's kind of weird
to think of forearms as a thing where
you like hit a pr on dumbbell curls on
the bench but
what is training other than a sequence
of staggered pr's like if someone asks
you hey are you pushing the pace in your
form training you're trying to get a
little stronger are you are you
making prs if you say like i don't know
just kind of go in there and do it don't
be surprised if you have weak puny you
know forearms like harry potter or some
shit actually look to see if his
forearms are small but certainly of
course they are
you know
why would you do that to any other
muscle right can you imagine you should
say to someone like i want big quads
and they're like are you getting
stronger on squats like pressing hacks
like i don't know i don't keep track the
weights go fucking in there and hammer
shit
that's dumb don't do that for forums a
huge overreaching point of this video is
forms and grip strength like everything
else should be treated seriously if
you're really serious about improving it
and what a lot of people do is they
think of it as an afterthought and then
they're surprised that it's the muscle
and strength is is actually reflecting
that and it seems like an afterthought
like if you always train your chest
first and do everything you have a big
chest you always you train your forearms
last or never you never keep track and
you're like man i can't get my forearms
to grow shut the fuck up what do you
mean can't get you haven't been trying
try and it'll happen all right
now
grip strength training we don't have a
guide for this on the rp website as of
the filming of this video this is not
likely we will because there's more
important shit going on but for that we
have this video so
a how many seven step process or seven
checklist process to make sure you're
doing the right thing first
make sure you're doing hypertrophy work
for forums at least in phases you don't
have to do all the time but at least a
few months here a few months there in
between strength phase work you're
making the forums meeting because you
can have a really really good grip with
small forms that happens which usually
need to be a genetic freak for that shit
to happen
most people if you see a guy with
forearms coming out this shirt like this
this probably doesn't have a weak grip
the more muscle you can have that pulls
on a joint generally the more force you
can produce so if you have jackforms
grip training is just going to work much
better for you you're going to start
doing your grip training for strength
and you're going to holy shit i'm
getting a ton of strength whereas if
your forearms are puny they're going to
top out at some point you're just going
to need to put on more forearm size
number two dedicate time to grip
specific work okay just deadlifting and
just drawing with no chalk is not enough
for max results for almost anyone if you
want strong
grip
then yeah using barbell movements with
no chalk is a good idea sort of but
here's the problem it really limits at
some point how much weight you can lift
and then all of a sudden your deadlifts
and your rows aren't getting as strong
as they should be because every time you
fail them
you're actually feeling at your grip
level and not at your back or your hips
or anything else and you're kind of
robbing those muscles and those points
of strength from expressing themselves
fully and really reaching their
potential so just like with anything
else you know you want to get a better
strength in your forearms you're going
to have to train them you're going to
have to train your grip very
specifically right
next one to that end of specificity this
one might blow some minds here
do your grip work fresh maybe not always
but at least sometimes do it first or
second in the workout don't do it as the
fifth or sixth exercise are you
literally on your way out and someone's
like hey didn't you want to get bigger
forearms and a stronger grip and you're
like aha i was just testing you to see
if you remember you sort of do an
awkward walk around you come up to some
dumbbells you're like that's it good to
go
preferably you should do this training
on days in which you don't do a lot of
heavy pulling or before you do heavy
pulling and then use versa grips or
straps or a shitload of chalk to make
sure you can still get heavy pulling
work even though your grip is fatigued
again none of this is rocket science i'm
just here to remind you if you want some
serious shit to happen you got to
prioritize that shit you can't just do
it regular or sort of just be like yeah
i'll just do it at the end you should at
the end you get end like results which
is to say not great ones
the core of your training highly
recommended if you want to be able to
better grip
now in this video i'm not going to get
into all the differences vice grip and
crushing grip and all this other stuff
we're just here talking technically
about crushing grip but it's the most
general kind of grip and it transfers
really well to your ability to grip
barbells and everything else crush soda
cans shake hands with people in a
physical level of exertion that is
wildly inappropriate for social
interaction where like you know your
ex-girlfriend's introducing you to her
current boyfriend he's like makes a
little bit more money than you
definitely handsome uh more he's taller
and he's nicer and she's like oh my god
hey jake your name is jacob this by the
way meet robert isn't he great and
you're like hey robert and you
don't even grab his arm you take out
some chalk put that shit on your fucking
hand you're like hold on a sec get that
chalk going
wait
wait robert we'll get to you we'll get
to you got to warm up
ammonia cap
and then as soon as you go for a
handshake if he hasn't run away at this
point
don't just go and shake his hand you got
to set it up right so it's awkward to do
myself but if you get his hand you got
to set it in right set it in like this
and go all right we're shaking hands now
right he's like yeah i guess we are
you're like ah and you're trying to
break his fingers
bones fly everywhere blood your
ex-girlfriend his current girlfriend's
like oh my god jake this is why they
broke up ah but then you can go home you
go on reddit and type out the story to
all your friends on reddit as awkward as
that is to say and and then you're the
man where the hell were we
oh yes grippers so crush and grip a
suite for shit like that
and
grippers are really good at doing that
what the fuck is a gripper go on
ironmind.com
they have a series called captains of
crush grippers they have every kind of
gripper you can imagine and they're
graded they're all numbered there's like
a
pansy gripper
training gripper student ripper
and then there's the iron mind like
number one number two number three
number four uh number four is there's a
list of people maybe like
fewer than 50 have ever closed in the
world i sure as hell never do it number
three i think you get a certificate if
you close it on camera and you send it
to them the number two i've closed the
two and a half which is like a pretty
impressive corresponds with like a six
to six fifty pound deadlift with chalk
if you can close the two and a half
generally you can pull that much if or
your grip won't fail and all the way
down the line all the way to pansy
gripper they don't have one that's
called a panzer grip they should they'd
be really funny it's really easy to
close it's like like bending a credit
card or something but grippers are great
for a few reasons one they're
standardized
to so so you know the resistance level
and you know it's the same tool every
time and you can thus progress and track
your progress another one is they allow
for full range of motion which is
probably how you want to be strong you
know you don't want to be strong like
right here and then you do a combat
sport or something you just do and
someone bends your you know fingers back
like this when they're passing and
you're like well i'm actually not strong
here at all is i've never seen that part
of the range of motion so it gives you a
full range to train your grip
and
it's nice and well knurled so it's
really uh good for grip training and my
best recommendation to you is how to do
the repetitions here and oh sorry last
thing you can do reps with them because
if you just grab dumbbells and hold you
have to like time it or some shit and
like when do you fail is it when your
dumbbell falls out completely or when
the grip starts to slip a little bit who
knows here if you you know do nine reps
and you fully close the gripper and you
do the tenth rep and it doesn't close
but it's easy it's just like a barbell
lift you can track it the failure is
really easy the technique is super easy
to standardize
my recommendation huge for you to make
this simple and easy on yourself i
shouldn't have said easy simple and
honest
is to go from fully opened gripper or as
far as your fingers will open without it
slipping out
all the way to fully closed and that
means the two metal pieces at the end
visibly and audibly clank
hold that closed position for one full
second at least and then slowly
essentially release and then go back
it's gonna be hard it's gonna suck but
it's gonna work and you're gonna get a
huge grip strength and then when robert
dares come back and shake your left hand
he's like hey we're cool right you're
like totally i'm totally over that was
crazy what i did last time
snap that motherfucker's hand up just
pull all his fingers out it'll be
amazing and your girlfriend's like
ex-girlfriend but she's still your
girlfriend in your own head that's
really the problem folks all right
what about how to do the actual grip
work itself okay so we got the technique
down
i would recommend sets in the 10 to 20
rep range and sets into 5 to 10 rep
range hold on a second we said strength
yes but gripping has such a small
amplitude
that the reps don't take very long and
thus as far as time under tension area
under the curve is concerned sets of
five to ten for grip work really
corresponds to sets of like two to six
for any other current barbell movement
curling movement so on and so forth so i
would recommend more sets of 5 to 10 10
to 20 actually get better strength like
that if you want to peak your grip
strength at any point you can do sets of
you know one to five but that should be
pretty rare also says the one to five
and the gripper tend to beat the shit at
all you're like 10 to the shit back here
elbow and sometimes even you know closer
to the wrist it doesn't feel good try it
if it feels good for you fine but my
recommendation is mostly sets of five to
ten and ten to twenty
and
you have to remember one thing training
grip is not the same thing as testing it
yeah they do give you a certificate if
you close the number four gripper once
but you don't get strong closing
grippers once uh you see a lot of folks
you know they have grippers and some of
the more serious gyms they have them
laying out and you can come up and and
do them most people come up and they go
clink
they do it one or two times they get
tired they throw it away you're here use
this as a training program so you get
the lighter grippers that you can do for
reps and you do reps and alternate and
reps and sets and all that stuff you're
building a grip you're not testing it
there's a time for testing and testing
is not the best way to build
point number six related to an earlier
point about hypertrophy seek progress
which means on a given gripper you ought
to add reps
last week you were doing sets of roughly
six now you're gonna do sets of roughly
seven next week hopefully roughly eight
when you get tired and you can't make
pr's anymore it's time to deload just
like you would with any other exercise
take a half a week or a week of much
easier training sometimes no grip
training at all then come back and start
ratcheting up again you have to go on
purpose
right into the flames and and try to
make more and more repetitions out of
the stuff if you have some kind of grip
device at a gym sometimes they have
these words plate loaded as long as your
technique is standard throw another two
and a half on the motherfucker every now
and again and your grip will get
stronger over time don't just do the
gripper and just do the gripper like oh
yeah i did some grip you know you write
in your notebook you're like squats five
by ten eccentric speed blah blah dead
lift six by eight blah blah centric
speed grip
check
what the fuck does that mean you just go
in there and do that and throw them away
no no regimented purposeful pr's with
good technique is the way to do it
now
what about other modalities farmer's
walks grip holds grip rolls and stuff
like that are they good of course
they're good i would recommend more of
the grip rolling type of stuff because
it has a dynamic component versus just
isometric just holding simply doesn't
incur as many adaptations in almost
anything as a dynamic approach because
dynamic stuff makes you good at
isometric and it makes you go dynamic
isometric stuff does make you good of
the dynamic stuff but not nearly as much
find a way as well to track progress
again don't just do some farmer's walks
do farmers walks for a prescribed time
or a prescribed distance with a
prescribed load next we go up and up and
up deload up and up and up and that way
you're going to be able to figure out
first of all
am i actually progressing good to know
and second of all
oh my god i've progressed a lot and i
know for a fact my grip is stronger i
don't have to know because sometimes if
you just fuck with the grippers or do
some farmer's walks someone can ask hey
like is your grip strength improving
you're like i think so i've missed fewer
deadlifts maybe in my hitching is better
maybe my technique is better maybe my
form fatigue when i'm pulling is better
so on and so forth maybe i just started
masturbating less before deadlift
sessions which i'd recommend is good
advice anyway
for life
all right last point
the biggest factor in all of this
is to set up and take your form and grip
training as seriously as you do any
other muscle group you want to grow
not an afterthought not just do some
grip after rows
select the best exercises
execute with good and stable technique
it's easy on grippers to week one do
good technique and week two you're like
ah shit i need sets of eight
and you get it done
train often okay more often usually than
just once a week or twice a week maybe
three times maybe more whatever you can
recover and progress with train harder
over time which means tracking your
progress to make sure you reach those
sort of little increases in progress
that guarantee that not only are you
making progress but you're pushing
yourself psychologically to make those
recover
and repeat
tldr group training and form training is
like anything else except it just looks
a little strange and you're giggling a
lot because all these masturbation jokes
are the only thing you think about which
is what i think about all day as soon as
i say bye i'll be thinking about
masturbation i hope you will as well bye