so before we get started I want to give
a huge thank you to Squarespace for
sponsoring this video so about a month
ago I was asked in a Q&A video whether
or not I thought stretching between sets
can increase muscle growth and here's
what I had to say basically the idea was
to really pump the muscle full of blood
and then stretch it between sets I don't
think there's any research to support
that it's pretty much row science in my
opinion well that video was published in
February and now just a couple weeks
here later this month's issue of the
mass research review as me sort of
eating my words on this one so
apparently a few years ago there was
this grainy picture of a PowerPoint
slide making its way around the internet
and it was saying that there was a study
on the way which would finally show that
stretching between sets does in fact
boost hypertrophy in humans however that
study was never actually published you
can't actually still find the abstract
online which does in fact say that when
subjects stretched their calves for 30
seconds between sets of calf raises they
saw significantly more calf growth so
there very well could be something to it
but I don't think we should put too much
stock in a study that was never actually
published there's also this infamous
1993 paper which showed over a 300%
increase in the lat muscle mass in just
28 days from weighted stretching alone
so you can imagine the bodybuilding
magazines had fun with this one but they
may have failed to mention that this
study was in fact conducted on the right
wing of 26 adult quail so birds and was
never actually replicated in humans
except for that dusty PowerPoint slide
that never ended up getting published so
up until now you've had many trainers
really pushing this interset stretching
idea including some really high profile
bodybuilding coaches like honey Rambo
and he's coached Phil Heath Jay Cutler
and many others and as far as I can tell
he's someone who's based pretty much his
entire training philosophy around
stretching in between sets on the other
hand you have skeptics like myself
who've been quick to write this idea off
as harmless but still pointless bro
science to enter this January 2009 study
out of South Paulo in Brazil which took
29 subjects and split them into one of
two groups giving them the same pretty
standard full body training program
where they hit bench presses tricep
extensions seated rows bicep curls leg
extensions and
curls for four sets of eight to twelve
reps to failure two days per week
one group lifted with no stretching
between sets and the other group
stretched the muscle they were training
for 30 second holds between every set so
for example when hitting the benchpress
they do 30 second stretches for their
pecs between all four sets and they were
holding the stretch just below the point
of pain or discomfort that's to me this
sounds like pretty rigorous stretching
but nothing's actually painful I'm so
here the results after eight weeks of
training the researchers measured muscle
thickness of four muscles and when they
added the four measurements up overall
they saw just about 50% more muscle
growth in the stretching group which is
pretty impressive for only eight weeks
however when you look at the actual
results you'll see that it was in fact
only a statistically significant effect
for the vastus lateralis or outer suite
quad muscle so while growth in the
biceps triceps and rectus femoris all
favored the stretching group the
differences between groups weren't
enough to reach a statistical
significance until you pulled the
results together I'm so it could be that
this only works for the quads or maybe
it works best for the quads maybe
they're just needed to be more time or
more subjects for the bicep and tricep
results to become significant but either
way I think these results are really
impressive and even though it is only
one study I think it is really well
designed so at this point I'd personally
be comfortable making the recommendation
that if you're going to be resting for
one to three minutes between your sets
anyway you might as well make yourself
useful and do 30 seconds of stretch and
rather than just rolling on social media
now there are a few important disclaimer
is about how you should actually
implement this in the gym so that you
don't accidentally impede your gains by
over stretching first the intensity of
the stretch shouldn't be too high
according to mass a previous study
showed that if you stretch to the point
of actual pain it can decrease
hypertrophy so don't stretch past the
point of mild discomfort and second you
shouldn't stretch for too long
holding stretches for a long time
greater than 60 seconds can decrease
force and power output so I recommend
keeping your stretches at or below 30
second holds just to be safe now as for
why this works I think it's a little too
early to say but I think it could have
something to do with blood flow and
nutrient delivery to the muscle similar
to what you'd see in
flow restriction training that's really
just a stab in the dark at this point
and the mass article Greg NACO
speculates that it could be simply a
matter of just exposing the muscle to a
greater amount of cumulative tension but
even in the absence of a known mechanism
given that there doesn't really seem to
be any downside as long as you do it
right I'd go ahead and add this to your
routine personally I'm planning to start
with simply stretching the agonist
muscle for the first three or four heavy
sets for the workout so for example on a
push day I'll stretch my pecs between
sets of benchpress but I won't continue
stretching them during the PEC deck sets
or whatever isolation work I have
planned and in between sets of pull ups
I'll stretch my lats for thirty seconds
but not on the subsequent rowing work
because I do have a feeling that there
will be a point of diminishing returns
when it comes to stretching volume and
I'd always rather err on the side of
caution when adding in something new now
when it comes to stretching as part of a
warm-up or a cool-down
I've explained my full protocol there
for pre-workout dynamic stretching and
foam rolling out so I'll go ahead and
link that video down below if you guys
would like to check it out thank you
guys so much for watching before we go I
want to give a huge thank you to
Squarespace for sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I use to run Jeff nipper
Netcom and I'm currently in the process
of rebranding and redesigning my website
once again and every time I switch
things up over there I'm the minded of
just how simple it is using Squarespace
and I also use the platform to run my
online store where I sell all my
training programs they have sleek
designer custom templates and 2014 to be
really helpful and really quick so if
you guys would like to get started with
building your own website you can go to
Squarespace comm forward slash Nippert
and that's gonna save you 10% off your
first purchase thank you so much
Squarespace for showing your support on
the channel I really appreciate it thank
you guys so much for watching don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe to the
channel if you happen to be new and I'll
see you guys all here in the next video