gain slowly and steadily for long
periods of time weeks and months and
then cut after when you decide that
you're a fat slob and your a future
girlfriend would be to be mistakes you
her hippopotamus by accident although
maybe if she's into animalistic weird
satanic shit you're
in hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance purz let's talk about
gaining weight cuz honestly like I
checked out your profile looks sort of
skinny no offense but you could use a
couple pounds wait are you natural or
are you enhanced because they're are
differences in how to approach weight
gain let's talk about them oh by the way
if you're new to the channel I'm Dr Mike
iSell someone made the egregious mistake
of granting me a PhD in sport physiology
I'm a professor of exercise and Sport
Science I'm a competitive Brazilian judu
Grappler I'm not very good at that and
I'm a competitive bodybuilder and I'm
definitely not very good at that but I
do have terrible jokes for you and maybe
a little bit of knowledge so let's
continue if you want to gain weight you
just eat more right wrong as Arnold
would say no well sort of but the story
can get a little bit complicated based
on if you are a natchy boy if you are
free of the terrible effects of drugs on
our communities and our society and if
you were
enhanced that's always what I think of
enhanced it's not really sexy to put a
needle of testosterone in your ass that
that would call enhancement I want a
fucking robotic arm godamn it then I'll
call myself enhanced but for now we'll
just call drug users enhanced too let's
take a look at how weight gain is
managed and approached both in Natty
folks and in enhanced folks natural
weight gain because dare I say almost
all of you fine folks fans of this
channel subscribers are probably natural
and probably should
be natti's first the scale can be very
reliable for you that's good news
because the scale tells you how much you
weigh and you're trying to gain weight
and if you can use the scale to see how
much well weight you've gained that's
awesome you should aim to gain something
between about a quarter pound per week
in scale weight which is tough to see
every week but every month you gain
about a pound all the way up to about a
pound per week in some cases now there
are going to be huge differences between
individuals and huge differences between
scenarios if you have amazing genetics
you're pretty much a beginner you're
pretty lean you have a huge bone
structure you may be able to gain a
pound per week for eight or 12 or 16
weeks even up to 20 weeks and gain a
really awesome combination of muscle and
fat if you're much more advanced you
don't have amazing genetics it might
behoove you to gain much slower maybe at
a quarter pound per week or something
like that a barely detectable rate just
so you don't get outlandishly fat and
just have to cut off the F
later huge differences and there's tons
of other videos in which we uh sort
those differences if you guys want to
get a video on how much weight should I
gain personally please let us know in
the comments and maybe we'll do that
also hey Scott the video guy you want to
send me a text right now reminding me to
make the video of how much weight should
I gain depending on my conditions you're
the first text he ever sent me and you
guys I text him all the time and the
last text him dick pics pictures of my
dick outlined with my underwear pictures
of what he thinks isn't a dick it's kind
of blurry and then he hits unblur and
it's oh still my dick he never responds
so in any case that should be the gain
rate and the duration should be
something like 8 to 20 weeks in length 8
weeks because anything much less than
that is can be okay but is often just
not enough to see measurable gains in
muscle that last over time and a maximum
of 20 weeks for one really simple reason
most people outside of really new
beginners can't maintain the requisite
training intensity and volume
continuously for more than 20 weeks
without at least a few weeks of break of
taking it Ultra easy and why would you
gain weight if you can't train hard well
if you wanted to gain fat you would gain
weight without training hard so that's a
bad idea 8 to 20 weeks is usually the
right answer of course that's just an
average sometimes six is okay and
sometimes even 22 is okay now you gain
like that and if you're Natty you stop
gaining weight when you've gotten too
fat for Comfort what body fat level
should you stop gaining at Scott send me
a second text what body fat level should
you stop gaining at thank you so much
I'll make that video as well in much
more depth but let me clear up a few
things here there is not a reliable top
end number that we know of yet well I
know of yet well I know everything
because I'm Dr Mike on YouTube and I'm
famous God don't anyone love me we don't
know exactly what the top end is of
where your ratio of muscle gain to Fat
gain starts to get not so good when you
get too fat I'll say it another way we
at least know that well into the early
20s or rather the low 20s in percent fat
it's still a really good p ratio or
partitioning ratio of muscle gain to Fat
gain so if you gain from being 12% fat
to 15% fat you can gain a similar amount
of muscle and fat is if you gain from
20% to 23% Fat similar maybe not
identical but there's no reason to
believe that as soon as you exceed 15%
or 20% all of a sudden everything is fat
and everything goes to hell mostly what
occurs first is you get discomfort in
one of several ways one is you are so
fat you're so out of shape training is
hard and then over is hard and then
muscle stimulus is hard so fuck that and
another thing is aesthetically you just
don't look good anymore and look if
you've got fat rolls globbing up what
the fuck are you doing I thought you
were in the muscle game for Aesthetics
at least to some extent what the hell is
going on there and uh so basically those
two situations kind of performance and
Aesthetics are a big deal and remember
and we have made other videos on this I
don't know when they're going to get
released maybe later maybe earlier but
if you gain a crapload of body fat the
skin and the cells stick around for
after even if you get leaner you get
loose skin your fat cells stay around
the same in number even though they
shrink in size and they kind of cry and
scream and make you hungrier and less
apt to gain body water sorry more apt to
gain body water all this really bad
stuff so you don't want to get too fat
definitely before any folds appear you
want to cut the process off so that are
the parameters for gaining now what
happens if you're gaining but you start
to stall out if your weight starts to
stall out and for a few weeks probably
like two you've seen no measure able
increase in your body weight you're
probably going to want to add uh some
carbs and some fats to your diet
something an addition of something like
250 total calories from some combination
of carbs and fat not Ultra important
where that comes from to see if that can
bump it and if it doesn't bump it in
another week or two add another 250 and
so on and so forth and you can even add
a little more if two bumps don't get in
moving add 500 see what happens worst
case you gain fat a little bit too fast
you can pull back a couple hundred
calories where should these carbs and
fats come from I would keep them from
healthy sources
possible can you add some junk sure just
don't do this too often or you'll get
less healthy and more fat than otherwise
and look the girl in school that you
like you desperately can't wait to talk
to she's not going to talk to you if
you're fat and unhealthy she's going to
make fun of you and throw tater tots
with nacho cheese on your face and
everyone else is going to laugh at you
and then you're going to get an erection
and oh boy I'm in fucking high school
again why did I get an eraction now she
was impressed after that cuz your boys
out here with that meat baby summer
sausage my fucking nickname
anyway Naturals you've got it easy in a
sense your body weight is a very good
guide follow your heart in everything
you do and your body weight and make
sure you're meeting your body weight
goals if you get too fat back off
maintenance fat loss so on and so forth
but if your body weight isn't Rising
like you want don't be delusional and
think you're gaining tons of muscle eat
a little bit more food most from healthy
sources a little bit of junk if you like
keep that weight coming up on the scale
until you feel a little too mushy and
then you have to reverse the process
that's natties let's talk about the
enhanced
folks those fucking
criminals the scale unfortunately as I
have learned in my enhanced Journey I'm
just kidding I'm lifetime drug free does
anyone believe that with how my face
looks maybe
anyone the scale is dog shit for and
half folks because body water
fluctuation are everything let me give
you an example you start a 16-week mass
gain cycle you plan to gain 20 pounds
during that time fuck it let's say
something more normal eight pounds half
a pound per week that's no big deal
right eight pounds of gain in 16 weeks
sounds like a great plan you start at
200 pound you started at trt to
testosterone replacement therapy dose
let's call it super trt as R Chavez of
tville GSP highly recommended source for
information calls it um 300 milligrams
of testosterone per week week you go to
500 milligrams of testosterone 500
milligrams on top of that we're at a
gram total of
primabol and you add in let's say going
from two IUS of growth hormone per day
to six IUS of growth hormone per day and
of course since you're on growth hormone
you're going to want maybe 10 to 20 IUS
of lantis slow acting insulin per day
over the course of just two or three
weeks just with that pretty gnarly but
not exceptional use of compounds the
amount of body water the average person
is going to gain no tissue just body
water exceeds 10 lb almost guaranteed if
you're remotely a responder to any of
this shit so in two weeks you weigh 210
lbs are you two pounds ahead of your 8
pound goal two weeks into the diet of 16
weeks what the fuck after that are you
like supposed to cut 2 lounds and then
make
for 16 what what the fuck is going on
well the answer is you can't tell what's
going on because you can never onetoone
attribute a certain amount of scale
weight to some combination of drug
induced water weight gain or actual
tissue gain it's an intractable problem
you can't know where it's coming from
thus we take a look at the scale and we
smash it with a hammer you guys ever
seen those commercials of like I would
say genuinely highly obese women
smashing scales with hammers girl you
didn't have to smash it with a hammer
you could have just stood on that
shit don't get me canceled please it was
just a joke um don't do that to your
scale your scale is a fine piece of
engineering work and will come in handy
in other regards but if you're
inhanced at least religiously following
your scale weight and manipulating your
calories and macros to fit your scale
weight is a very bad idea so how the
fuck are you supposed to know what to do
with your food and how do you know if
gaining if your scale is no longer
useful good question one I have thought
through and have an answer for you want
to aim to eat an amount of mostly
healthy food standard bodybuilding Fair
chicken and rice and broccoli that's how
I got big that's how the rock got big
that's how everyone gets big nobody
actually takes drugs eat your healthy
foods with high protein and eat enough
of them such that they keep you a tad
bit more full on average than you would
like to be just a little bit more full
than you would like to be that's another
decent way to make sure you're a little
bit hypercaloric your weight is going to
do question mark things during that time
but at least you know you're pushing a
decent amount of food in to supply the
raw materials for that drug and training
and nutrition and rest mediated
anabolism because the drugs are big time
Big Time some shit's going to happen
you're getting g a ton of size now if
you're getting a bit fat a bit fast just
by looking at yourself in the mirror
something that you should be doing at
least 20 times every
hour if you're getting a little too fat
what you can do in this really only
works if you're on gear and something
else I learned from brck Chavez is you
just reduce the fats and maybe a little
bit of the carbs mostly just the fats in
your diet for about a week or two you
take all of your cheat meals of which
you take maybe two or three per week on
a nice Mass gain and you eliminate them
for just about a few weeks and once you
do that you're going to notice that the
drive of the anabolics is so powerful
and now the food is much less you're
going to lean out and you're going to
still continue to gain a little bit of
muscle but you're going to lose a ton of
fat and then you're going to get your
good conditioning back and once you're
notably leaner and you're okay to go
again you ramp up your food again but
not to as high as it was before because
that clearly got your ass too fat too
fast but something intermediate to from
where it is now to where it used to be
something in between so if you work at
4,000 calories a day and you got a
little too fat a little too fast and you
eliminated some fats and some cheat
meals and that took you to 3200 calories
per day on average for the week maybe
aim to hit something like oh 3,600
calories and see what that lands you and
you can always repeat the process get a
little too fat clean up your diet drop
the fats down a little bit and by a
little bit I mean take the fats down to
whatever. three grams per pound per day
so if you're 200 pound individual take
your fat down to 60 grams of fat per day
on average take all of your cheat meals
and well just tell your girlfriend
you're not going out with her for the
next few weeks because fucking fucking I
got a fucking how do you think I fucking
keep this body for you bitch you think
I'm going to be a fucking Superman for
you without cutting my fucking fats out
and no more cheat meal she's like I
don't even know what's going on anymore
Conor every since you started using
steroids you're like I don't even feel
emotions yeah steroids are really fun
don't do any of that but do that 3600 K
Cal and if you ever need to bring it
down again you get a little too fat you
can always pull back a little bit fats
down to minimum levels eliminate cheat
meals clean it up a few weeks later
you're going to notice shit's kind of
fucking veins are popping and then
you're look okay I'm ready to go and
come back up slowly to a body fat level
that's the top end of my acceptable
range for that Mas gaining phas if on
the other hand you are eating a certain
amount of food and let's say it's a
little bit more food than you want to
eat you can't be guaranteed that you're
hypercaloric that you're eating more
calories than your body needs and thus
really adequately fueling anabolism why
because your genetic responses to the
intervention of the supplements can be
different myself I get a huge hunger
response from being an anabolics so when
I'm on a ton of gear I just want to eat
the fucking world and eat my hand and
eat my soul no don't worry the drugs
will eat my soul for me but other people
have uh anorectic response to high doses
of anabolics such that when there're are
a lot of gear they don't really like to
eat food and even if they're eating more
food that makes them full they could be
flatlining in weight and remember the
androgens and the growth hormone and
Insulin should be gaining tons of body
water if at that time your weight is
stable that means you're losing fat and
tissue really fast and that's not
something you want to do I mean it's
awesome but you're trying to gain muscle
so you're trying to go the other way
so if you're losing weight or stable in
weight and your conditioning is either
stable or improving then you want to eat
more healthy food can you know something
like 250 to 500 calories more food
instantiate that change see how it
affects you instantiate it again if
necessary to keep that process plugging
along adding junk is okay it's okay but
it it's the consistent healthy eating
meal after meal after meal or little
bits of junk here and there on top of
healthy food that make you gain muscle
if your food is isocaloric or even
hypocaloric over the week but eight
massive pieces of fucking New York style
pizza on Friday and then the world's
biggest Chinese food buffet binge on
Saturday is where you get your
hypercaloric diet from you can't shove
fucking 5,000 extra calories into your
muscles in two days and expect them to
anabolizantes to muscle the rest go to
fat and so that's just a good way of not
gaining a lot of muscle during the week
because you're hypocaloric during the
week and then gaining quite a bit of fat
during the weekends that's the worst of
all worlds so to make this very clear no
just gaining weight through cheat meals
is not a good idea is a decidedly bad
idea eat mostly healthy food just more
of it or if you're going to cheat have
like a candy bar at the end of dinner
instead of like 18 candy bars on a
Friday night after you've eaten 500
milligrams of Edibles and you don't know
what your name is anymore but you know
Candy tastes good and that's all you
need to know when your blast is over
that is your your dropping down dosages
back to replacement levels your gaining
should stop you lose a ton of weight
again the scale doesn't tell you dick so
from your old measurements and
understanding of your body you're going
to have to go to what you think is a
maintenance level of calories again
warning you're going to lose a ton of
weight during maintenance because almost
all of it is intramuscular and
subcutaneous water and it's not actual
tissue that you're losing you're going
to lose a little bit because you can't
maintain huge levels of muscularity on
very low levels of androgens but you do
keep some decent amount of what you did
when you're on the blast cycle and then
you do another blast all of it comes
back really quick and then you'll add
more later and very very importantly
make sure you do blood work at the end
of your mass gaining phases to see how
your health markers are if your health
markers have gone a little bit more
south than you and your coach think is a
good idea then for the next time getting
leaner on your fat loss phase and
staying leaner during your next bulk is
a really good idea because being lean is
one of the best ways to ensure a better
level of Health through your gain phase
I've done blood work on myself fucking
from here till the moon and back I'll
tell you this even when I'm a fuckloads
of gear my blood work is just
objectively better when I'm leaner
versus when I'm fatter so if you have
blood work problems getting leaner is a
big start and considering altering
reducing the dosages altering compounds
or really reconsidering being enhanced
altogether is probably wise move at that
point so to wrap it all up main points
that beginners can take away from this
whole chat first stay natural trust me
it's a really good idea for about 500
fucking reasons and you can YouTube
search videos uh that we've made about
steroids where I I think convincingly
illustrate that point in many different
ways and while staying Natty gain slowly
and steadily for long periods of time
weeks and months and then cut after when
you decide that you're a fat slob and
your uh future girlfriend would be to be
mistakes you for hippopotamus by
accident although maybe if she is into
animalistic weird satanic shit you're in
and then you're like yes I am a hippo
feed me that
ass no no
takers for intermediates also stay Natty
for many other very good reasons gain
slowly and steadily but if you feel like
during a gain phase you're getting a
little too fat for Comfort experiment
with short mini cuts and if you want to
know what a mini cut is Renaissance
peration mini Cuts YouTube we got whole
fucking fields of videos on that shit
the mini cut will make you leaner again
more sensitive to growth again and then
you can start slow gaining again with
the lessons learned based on how your
last muscle gain face
went main points for the advanced gain
slowly very slowly especially because
you can't gain muscle very fast anymore
as gaining an enor amount of fat is just
fucking annoying and pointless and if
you're enhanced and to me advanced and
enhanced are you have to be advanced in
order to earn the right to be enhanced
or you're from the countries of Europe
and I've got this Festival coming up so
I'm taking like 600 milligrams of an
ofar day for like three years to get
ready for Love Fest Berlin because like
look at my abs JK Germans you're great
other than the period from 1939 to
1945 I'm kidding still it's all good if
you're Advanced and enhanced don't look
at the scale too much because it doesn't
tell you a lot but do look at hunger and
fullness and look at your conditioning
if you feel pretty full and your
conditioning is decent fucking keep
plugging if you're feeling a little
hungry and your conditioning is
improving you need to eat more no matter
how you feel hunger and fullness wise if
your conditioning is staying the same
you're not getting a little fatter or
you're actually getting leaner eat more
food if you're getting fat really fast
cut out a bunch of uh car cut out some a
bunch of fats cut out some carbs maybe a
little maybe not at all definitely clean
up the diet no more cheating for a few
weeks you're going to lean out again and
then don't gain as fast as you were
before something a little shy of that
and you'll have really good results if
you want to learn more about this and
the intricacy of how to set up a muscle
gaining diet just get on the Google
machine or the YouTube machine same
company and just Google muscle gain
dieting Made Simple we have an eight
part I believe eight 10 fck I know lot
of video series it's a playlist on
YouTube on how to do every single part
of setting up and altering and modifying
and troubleshooting your muscle gain
diet and that's going to be sweet and if
you want to use the RP diet coach app to
get you more jacked and the RP
hypertrophy app link in BIO uh link
description I forgot where I was I
thought I was on Instagram but I'm in
real life again I wish I could just
teleport to Instagram so I could live
with Larry Wheels what it's not like I
check up on Larry's page every single
hour that I'm awake Larry I love
you that was
weird these principles that are
described in that series work just the
same for both natties and
juicies enjoy have fun be responsible be
smart don't do anything stupid don't
don't die don't kill anyone and I'll see
you next time