all right what is going on everyone so
still being so early here in the New
Year I figured now would be a good time
for me to sit down and do a quick video
on fat loss and lay out a few of my
favorite fat loss strategies that don't
require that you actually track macros
or follow a strict diet because I would
imagine many of you have probably
started a new diet or some new macros
here in the new year and while I hope
many of you are able to follow through
and stick to the diet and get to your
goal I also know that many of you will
in fact fail with your diet and not get
to your goal a classic study on New
Year's resolutions out at the University
of Scranton asked 213 adults about their
new year's resolution success the most
common resolutions were smoking
cessation and weight loss and by the end
of the first week only 77 percent of
people were still succeeding with their
resolution by one month so February that
was down to 55 percent and after two
years only 19% of people had actually
followed through so anyway hopefully we
can skew those numbers up a bit here
with these four tips that focus on
dieting behavior not the diet itself so
you can apply them to whatever diet it
is that you're on or even if you're not
following a diet or tracking macros at
all now first I want to start with a
quick review of what I would consider to
be the three pillars of positive body
composition change and I say body
composition change here rather than just
weight loss because I think what we
really want to do is lose fat while
maintaining or building muscle I'm so
every diet that works at getting you the
body that you want will follow these
three things you need to be in a caloric
deficit to lose fat we need to eat high
enough protein to keep or build muscle
and you need to train with weights to
keep your build muscle now there are a
few exceptions to these rules such as if
you're using anabolic steroids and I've
talked about body recomposition and
other videos showing that it certainly
is possible to build muscle in a caloric
deficit but for our practical purposes
here if your main goal is to lose fat
and I think you're gonna want to be in a
caloric deficit and I would say even at
the very high level say getting like
something below 10% for men and 18% for
women now you really just need to follow
these three things I would say things
like diet breaks and refeeds can help
you stick to the caloric deficit for
longer but it really does just come back
to a caloric deficit for fat loss
and protein plus weight training for
muscle 1 2014 meta-analysis looked at 48
randomized controlled trials on 10
popular diets including Atkins South
Beach Jenny Craig etc and the authors
concluded that the differences were
small and unimportant and because people
respond differently to different diets
the ideal diet is the one that is best
at here tubes that they can stay on the
diet as long as possible
now that isn't to say that some diets
aren't better than others for other
reasons like overall health or dietary
adherence but when it comes to losing
fat and maintaining or building muscle
for every diet and macro breakdown
that's out there that really does come
back to those three pillars I'm so on
paper it sounds pretty simple you just
gotta pick a diet and then actually
stick to it but when putting that
information into practice your brain can
start to interfere in all sorts of ways
which brings me to my four tips so the
first tip here is a bit more unorthodox
you may not have heard of it before and
it won't work for everyone now but I do
think it's a cool strategy and the idea
here is to rotate carbs and fats at each
meal so for example let's say you eat
four meals per day and meal one you eat
protein and carbs with minimal fats in
meal two you'd eat protein and fats with
minimal carbs then in meal three you do
protein and carbs again and the meal for
protein and fats again and there's
nothing magic about this macronutrient
distribution but it will probably quite
easily restrict the number of calories
that you actually eat since it is most
often the combination of carbs and fats
that makes food so much more palatable
and easier to over consume so if you
separate carbs and fats at meals that'll
probably make it much harder for you to
overeat and if you never tried this
before you can give it a shot and see if
it works for you
so the second tip is going to be to
increase periods of fasting between
meals or before your first meal and in
my coaching experience have found that
breakfast skipping or fasting longer
between meals is really effective for
many people when it comes to reducing
their total daily food intake this won't
work for everyone
some people may skip breakfast and then
be so hungry later in the day that they
just end up overcompensating so it will
be individual but it is an option and
there is scientific evidence to suggest
that if you reduce the timeframe in
which
can eat even by just a few hours that
can lead to a caloric deficit even in
the absence of conscious dieting a new
2018 pilot study reduced the eating
window to eight hours every day 23 obese
adults so they started eating at 10 a.m.
and then stopped eating by 6 p.m. and as
you can see here in the graph they lost
about 3% body weight in the 12 weeks
compared to controls which just ate as
normal so yeah I wouldn't say that it's
amazing weight loss by any standard but
considering that they weren't tracking
their macros or dieting or really
restricting anything but to their feed
and window I would say that this data
does suggest that time restricted eating
is a pretty solid strategy especially if
you combine it with intentional weight
loss strategies like the ones we're
discussing here
ok so tip number 3 is to reduce or
eliminate liquid calories altogether
this was highlighted and have more
interesting papers i've read recently
which looked at the effect of viscosity
or thickness on food intake so they had
a hundred and eight subjects and go to
the movie theater and watch three
romantic comedies on three separate
occasions
each time they were given either a
liquid semi liquid or semi solid
chocolaty drink and allowed to drink as
much as they want now all three drinks
were similar in caloric content and
taste but subjects drank
30 percent more of the more liquid drink
than a semi-solid drink led the authors
to conclude that the consumption rate of
liquids is much higher than that of
solids I'm so limiting your intake of
liquid calories could actually be pretty
helpful if your goal is fat loss
especially if you're not tracking macros
or following a diet since as this
research shows that it is much easier to
over consume on liquid calories and
solid calories and the fourth and final
tip that we've all probably heard before
here it actually does have quite a bit
of science to back it up is to simply
eat out less often 1 2016 study by urban
Atholl found that restaurant meals in
the u.s. contained about 1200 and 5
calories on average of course there was
a large range depending on the meal from
113 to 3008 calories as well it
certainly is possible to make healthier
less fattening choices when eating out
that 1205 calorie average does really
point toward just how large restaurant
portion sizes can be especially in the
States
and people are also notoriously bad at
guessing the caloric content of meals
and the
calorie-dense the meal is the more they
tend to underestimate the true caloric
value there is this very
well-established bias to think you're
eating fewer calories than you actually
are and then by the same token that
isn't to say that you can't or shouldn't
go out to eat at all but if you were to
simply reduce the number of times that
you go to eat in the week that simple
behavior change on its own could
actually have a significant impact on
reducing your total weekly energy intake
okay so those are my four tips for fat
loss without following a diet or needing
to track macros you just want to keep in
mind that none of these things are
required for fat loss but can be used as
simple behavioral tools to make
maintaining a caloric deficit a little
bit easier without having to be
excessively restrictive or even really
consciously dieting now that's all that
I have for this one guys thank you so
much for watching and I hope that you
guys really get on your way with your
new year's resolutions and fat loss
goals if you found this video to be
helpful please leave me a thumbs up
don't forget to subscribe to the channel
and I'll see you guys all here in the
next video