you
[Music]
[Applause]
for years for more or less my entire
school-age childhood I ingrained this
idea that I was worthless and I believed
it I believed it wholeheartedly it's not
like people were telling me I was
worthless but I really knew I had
something going I really just wished I
was someone else
I want to be a freak I want to be
enormous I want to be ripped to shreds
and I'm learning all the time more and
more how to make that happen I get
better all the time
[Music]
I'm Mike hotel I'm 32 years old and I'm
a professor of Sport Science at Temple
University in Philadelphia got my PhD a
couple of years ago in sport physiology
that's kind of the science of taking
good athletes and making them better at
East Tennessee State under dr. Mike
Stone to say that I love training is a
huge understatement I love everything
about training I look forward to
training sometimes I'll have situations
where I wish I could recover for more
training in some sense it gives me a
sense of purpose that I can't replace
anything with it gives me probably the
biggest purpose in my life
[Music]
that was
[Music]
the process of getting better is what
I'm obsessed with not so much the end
goal looking at yourself in the mirror
between sounds and going what the hell
to buy creative how much further is this
process going to go it's almost a
mystery that's part of the allure
[Music]
I love the process of training the
process of eating I love everything
about it there's a part about dieting
that I like even when you're suffering
the hunger the sleeplessness the stress
it makes you feel alive it makes me feel
alive I look at people's meals now and I
go I wonder what they're eating that for
but I've been thinking about food is an
input/output system for so long I think
how can they do that with no purpose the
only way in this time in my life that I
can see myself is an input-output
machine input nutrients training
supplements etc output objective
quantifiable performance and body
composition measures that's it the only
thing that makes sense
and now I have the addiction of
scientific eating have the addiction of
scientific bodybuilding training and I
grew another addiction of jujitsu
training I started doing jujitsu and
first it was really frustrating I don't
think anyone likes to do stuff they're
not good at I lost a lot people much
smaller and much weaker than me beat me
up just like jiu-jitsu promise but then
as I started training more and more I
started to develop a game techniques
things I could fall back on as I got
better and better and better at it I
began to fall in love with it but
there's something about rolling
something about combat that can't be
replaced nothing can replace it if I
don't trained in jiu-jitsu for about
five days I start to get dreams or
violence
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
mike has an unusual body place at least
for me to work within you to our bodies
are very different which is not really a
problem but his body is so different
than people that I've worked with in the
past it's an interesting challenge for
me to try and help him figure out a game
that he's going to be very successful
with at a high level
[Music]
Mike listens when I give him advice
we'll talk about it and we'll try to
implement it right away in a lesson
and he's receptive to any advice that I
have and then he's also good about
giving me feedback and productive way
about whether that advice is going to
work for him or not
[Music]
there's something about jujitsu that
purifies me when I've rolled when I bled
when I've hopped and popped when I've
had my limbs more or less broken off my
body
short of a tap I've earned the right to
be
[Music]
[Applause]
mike is a super friendly funny guy makes
everybody comfortable on that with Mike
it's there's a lot more below the
surface than than what you said
[Music]
sometimes I get asked the question of
what motivates you to do all this when I
was a kid I had for a long time really
pretty serious attention deficit
disorder and it was so bad that I was
one of the worst students in my school
my brain didn't work well in the ninth
grade I was formally diagnosed and I
began to be prescribed medication I
managed to rise from one of the worst
students at the school to probably the
most decorated person in my high school
graduating class undergraduate degree
master's degree PhD if I'm not
productive if I don't write articles
write books create content develop
hypotheses into theories if I'm not
producing things of intellectual value
I don't feel okay I feel worthless and
that's the honest truth
I'm dr. Maia's Raquel and I am the
Renaissance difference