thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth busting a this week we're gonna
have a look at the idea that drinking
alcohol is hindering your fat loss or
weight loss and we'll also touch on a
few other things like its effect on
building muscle and testosterone levels
um so I'd like to look at this on two
different levels first we're gonna have
a look at what happens in your body when
you consume alcohol acutely
so say on a night out when you're
drinking with the purpose of getting
intoxicated and secondly we're gonna
look at what happens over time so if
drinking becomes persistent and
consistent first I think it's important
to acknowledge that most people should
realize that over consuming any nutrient
will lead to fat storage I'm since net
fat balance is ultimately determined by
net energy balance meaning if you're
eating in a caloric surplus you'll gain
weight and if you're eating in a caloric
deficit you'll lose weight and that's
regardless of where those calories are
coming from whether from apples or say
beer in this fact while the source of a
lot of disagreement on the internet
isn't actually controversial within
mainstream scientific discourse however
I think the more interesting question is
not whether or not alcohol somehow
breaks energy balance and thermodynamics
laws but rather whether or not alcohol
is inherently more fattening than other
nutrients because while it is true that
calories in versus calories out is the
main thing driving changes in body
weight changes and body composition can
be a bit more complicated so to answer
that question I think we need to first
understand what exactly happens when
alcohol enters your body okay so when
you drink alcohol its first absorbed in
your bloodstream and then makes a
beeline straight to the liver in fact
your body handles alcohol metabolically
quite similar to how it handles poisons
means that metabolism of all the other
nutrients you've eaten are going to be
put on the back burner until alcohol is
eliminated and since there's no store
for alcohol in the body unlike carbs and
fats as long as alcohol is in your
system all carbs and fats are gonna be
preferentially shuttled towards storage
this is especially the case for dietary
fat where we see that fat oxidation or
burning is severely blunted following
alcohol consumption and I think this is
where the whole idea that alcohol is
making you fat it's coming from now here
I think it's important to clarify that
alcohol itself
isn't making you fat at least not
directly in fact it's actually quite the
opposite of that it gets burned right
away that's just that the other excess
calories are so much more readily stored
as fat when alcohol is present and since
this is especially the case with dietary
fat if you are going to be drinking
heavily
I'd recommend lowering your fat intake
for that day
but the main thing that you really want
to avoid is a post drinking binge this
is a surefire way to accumulate a lot of
new fat short period of time when you
consider alcohols effect on lowering
inhibitions post drinking food binges
that really can be pretty difficult to
resist for a lot of people I'm so
depending on your level of willpower
while intoxicated it might simply be
better for you to just avoid heavy
drinking if fat loss is your priority
another strike against alcohol is that
experimental studies show that
individuals often don't compensate
afterward for calories consumed from
alcohol so when you drink chances are
those extra calories from alcohol will
just end up getting tacked on it's your
total intake for the day making it much
easier to push you into a caloric
surplus now but it's actually even worse
than that for alcohol one 2010 review on
alcohol and appetite described alcohol
as the least satiating energy source and
we're still some studies have shown
alcohol to magnify the ability of food
to stimulate appetite so not only is it
terrible at making you feel full it
might actually make you feel even
hungrier once you do start to eat I'm so
between all these factors the sort of
metabolic hijacking lowered inhibitions
empty calories I'm just terrible
satiating ability can see that alcohol
isn't exactly your friend when it comes
to fat loss but I think that with all of
that said it ultimately does come down
to moderation I'm assuming a net caloric
deficit is in place having the
occasional alcoholic beverage or even
splurge really shouldn't curtail your
fat loss progress I'm actually in my own
coaching experience I've noticed that
the occasional night out can often help
with fat loss especially if you're
feeling a little more stressed or bound
up from the diet
many dieters myself included will notice
a swoosh in body weight and a few days
following a night of drinking but of
course if that drinking gets excessive
to the point that it pushes you into a
caloric surplus then it's of course
going to hinder
fat loss progress but like we said the
good question isn't can I drink alcohol
and still lose weight because the answer
is obviously yes you can if you're in a
caloric deficit and I think the good
question is how is that affecting body
composition so the answer that question
I think we need to consider its impact
on muscle mass so let's start with
testosterone interestingly a light
drinking in the range of two to three
standard drinks has actually been shown
to boost testosterone in the range of 17
percent in men and this might help
explain the increase in libido that's
often seen with light alcohol
consumption but given the very transient
nature of this spike I don't think it's
likely to be doing much of anything
anabolic however as you start to
increase the dose of alcohol at
testosterone levels start to steeply
decline and one study that drew blood
samples from drunken emergency room
visitors found 45% lower testosterone in
drunk men compared to controls but I
think most interestingly about fivefold
higher testosterone in drunk women and
authors suggests that this is likely due
to alcohols inhibitory effect on
testicular testosterone specifically
this is an idea supported by multiple
lines of evidence collectively
suggesting that if you don't have
testicles you don't really need to worry
about alcohols negative effect on
testosterone
of course testosterone is a very
powerful anabolic hormone so from a
muscle building perspective you want it
to be as high as possible but what does
the science have to say about alcohol
and muscle growth directly well the
general trend of research seems to
indicate that rates of muscle protein
synthesis are suppressed by alcohol
consumption this is especially true in
the post-workout period well a lot of
this research has been done on rodents
now they're all showing the same general
trend and 1 2014 human study from
pairing colleagues found that heavy
alcohol consumption in the range of
eight to nine drinks post-workout
reduced muscle protein synthesis by 37%
that's a pretty big drop and they also
found that even when protein was
consumed in amounts shown to be
optimally effective the intake of
alcohol still reduced muscle protein
synthesis by 24% indicating that even
protein some of the most anabolic stuff
we have can't fully rescue the anti
anabolic effects of alcohol but this
study only tested male subjects and
similar to testosterone the impact of
alcohol seems to be sexist
according to a new 2017 study
investigating alcohols effect on ten men
and nine women although resistance
training elicited similar mTOR signaling
in men and women alcohol ingestion
seemed to only attenuate mTOR signaling
pathway in men um so all this to me
seems to suggest that if you are a woman
you probably have much less to worry
about from a muscle building perspective
if drinking after training but as
interesting as all this acute data is I
would say the biggest potential downfall
of drinking is its effect on performance
the following day
I'm just how much it affects your
training will be individual and it'll
depend on how much you drank but through
the combination of dehydration hangover
and interrupted sleep a night of
drinking really is working against you
the day after in the gym now of course
once in a while this isn't gonna derail
your gains completely especially if you
say schedule planned rest day the day
after a night of drinking and just
really focus on rehydrating but if it
becomes a regular thing the potential
for performance detriments combined with
suppressed testosterone and reduced
muscle protein synthesis especially if
you're a man really could be holding you
back at times as for whether or not the
myth is busted
I'd say with this one it just really
does depend even more than usual alcohol
in moderation isn't likely to cause any
significant fat gain or impaired muscle
growth especially if caloric intake is
controlled for but I think in excess it
really is so much more likely to sort of
slow your progress down on all fronts
and so I'm just gonna leave it at that
for this one I'll put a quick summary
slide up here on the screen with the
main practical takeaways if you'd like
to pause and go ahead and read that and
before we go I want to give a huge shout
out to Squarespace for sponsoring this
video if you guys don't know Squarespace
is an all-in-one website platform where
you can custom create your own website
or your own online store I just finished
totally revamping my own website on
Squarespace and I'm really excited to
show that to you guys soon I think it
looks awesome they have really aesthetic
designer templates 24-hour customer
service which I've personally found to
be really helpful throughout this
process so if you guys would like to get
started with making your own website or
your own online store you can go to
Squarespace comm forward slash Nippert
and that'll save you 10% off your first
purchase I'm so thanks again to
Squarespace for sponsoring the video
thank you
so much for watching if you did like the
video don't forget to give me a thumbs
up I don't forget to subscribe if you
happen to be new and I've got a new vlog
on the way next Monday so I'm gonna be
alternating Mythbusters every other
Monday now so June 11th will be my next
myth bus so I'll see you guys all then