the idea that all of the muscles in your
body can grow best on just a few sets a
week is on principle wrong
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization how does high intensity
training AKA hit measure up to modern
sport Science is it a good idea is it a
bad idea or is it the worst idea ever
curious
so
real quick what the hell is hit training
it stands for high intensity training
and
I think it was invented in the sometime
around in the 70s by a gentleman named
Arthur Jones who you could say
sarcastically invented it to sell
exercise machines
and which which he did he made great he
was the guy who uh uh fronted the
Nautilus line which is some of the best
machines in history uh so kudos to him
and it was popularized in the 1980s and
Beyond by a gentleman named Mike menser
who was quite good bodybuilder and not
the best never won the Olympia but was
excellent and he really really bought
into the hit philosophy
what is hit though what is its ethos
it's difficult
to debate hit with true adherence of hit
because they move goal posts a lot which
a lot of us do in debate so I don't
blame them specifically for it because
if you say this is hit training they'll
say well this really isn't hit training
this other thing is hit training and
they say okay this other thing is hit
training and other hit proponents will
be like no no this other third thing is
hit training so we can just do broad
Strokes which almost no one will agree
with compared to Conventional training
hit prescribes at least three
differences one way higher relative
effort taking sets to failure usually or
Beyond
whereas regular training may say oh you
know three reps try two rep shy one rep
shy zero rep shy failure or Beyond just
all good stuff in context hit says no no
no no no failure
and or Beyond forced reps drop sets
stuff like that
secondly
hit training
tries to minimize the volume of training
they'll do only a few sets per session
not 10 sets or something
and thirdly compared to Conventional
training hit training usually reduces
frequency often opting for training a
muscle only one time a week as opposed
to multiple times a week
so as an example normal quad training
might be like you know you do six sets
of quads uh twice a week that's 12 sets
total and you know on average two reps
in reserve for the whole mesocycle that
seems like great training to me whereas
hit training might be more like you do
three sets of quads one time per week
but all three sets are taken to negative
five rir which means
after you went to failure your buddy
stripped some plates off and you did
another five reps like
Beyond failure like an instant drop set
or you did fi you know whatever number
of reps to failure and let's say it's
with some kind of cable sort of pressing
machine your buddy helped you on the
concentric and then let go on The
Eccentric and uh you wrote it down five
reps Beyond failure so something like
that or at the bottom you did some
bottom stretch partials where you can't
lock it out anymore but you did down
here just just moving as much as you can
stretching as much as you can until you
just can't move at all total system
failure with good technique that's
something that hit training would look
much more like versus conventional
training
as always there are upsides and
downsides to every system and every
method so click bait aside thank you
Scott the video guy and team there will
not be a part of this where I'm like hit
training stupid and I have feelings
about it no no no no
kid training is valuable because it has
some things going forward and is less
valuable because it has others so let's
parse them
hit training has some very serious
upsides first
you don't have a lot of sets to do
your opportunity for growth is limited
to just a few sets per muscle group per
week
or whatever interpretation of hit you're
using like the one Dorian Yates used
heated like 14 sets on average per
muscle group per week which is quite a
few but it's fewer than he would have
done
and it's fewer than you would have done
if you had done a different program
instead of hit
and the constraint to the smaller number
of sets
vastly incentivizes you to have the
highest set quality possible like you
got three sets of leg press to make shit
happen each of those three sets there's
no mail-in nothing it better be great
technique and super high relative effort
so the sets are ultra high quality
because you haven't got that many sets
you can't just do well set a 10 that
felt okay I didn't understand that felt
better I didn't know this out of 10 I
wasn't really paying attention fine one
last set of 10 and then this time I'll
work on it hit makes you bring it which
is an awesome practice everyone should
be doing anyway
hit also takes a recovery really
seriously there is no shortage of people
that just think adding more stuff to the
program works great how many guys you
know in high school bench every fucking
day
a lot that's what I did in high school
and hit and Arthur Jones and Mike menser
accurately recognized that recovery is a
freaking big deal and if you're not
recovered yet where the hell are you in
the gym
because hit focuses on recovery there
are folks who chronically undercover
that when they try hit they're going to
blow up with size and good because
they've been doing too much
high intensity training is also in many
cases for example in uh Dante trudell's
version dog crap training which is a
funny way to someone wants to ask me
what I already knew about dog crap I
didn't know much about it someone was
like you ever do dog crap training my
answer was I generally don't do training
that's like self-effacing like you ever
do idiot training like no like you
should try it it's fucking awesome this
guy's name's the idiot he's on YouTube
goes by Dr Mike he's got idiot program I
love it dog crap what a fucking weird
name but nonetheless a very good
Training System and one of its tenants
is that you know you go to failure every
time you train without a ton of volume
but you're right your reps and your
weight now something the RP hypertrophy
app can do for you by the way and then
next week you try to hit a PR
from the start high intensity training
by almost all of its adherence is a log
book training Dorian did it Mike menser
did it
Dante did it
JP uh
what's his name Jordan Peters
well any in fact enjoyed Peters have got
fucking
fucking muscle no no that's how I think
he talks not really sure how he actually
talks he's a big proponent of seemingly
very high relative effort he goes
everything to failures he's a hit guy
for sure he's always on that logbook
which is fucking dope because a lot of
guys train at random like yeah man I hit
a PR next week you're like how does your
training look look good man my chest is
swell up so you're like I got you did
you hit a PR look look I know my man why
would it matter if you're getting
stronger over time oh wait that's really
critical to evaluating if you're putting
on muscle or not
because you hit guys usually chase the
logbook progression is the Cornerstone
of philosophy which is fucking awesome
every single Training Method should have
progression as the Cornerstone by the
way
another benefit to hit training it's so
fun oh my God by the way you guys might
not know this uh for eight years of my
life in college and grad school I only
trained hit every set was too failure
every single one including on squats by
the way
and Nick Sean I who just got his Pro
card by the way uh Louis that's how we
trained uh one of the reasons we
continue to train with that despite our
best intuitions about how well it was
working so so fun man every set is a
religious experience I love plugging
into a fucking dumbbell press and being
like here we go people that made fun of
me when I was 10. you know like
amazing amazing feeling there's
something about sets a 10 to 12 with two
rear that's like how long you do it it
feels good you rack the weight someone's
a good set brother and you're like was
it I don't know I did the work I think
going all out failure man is fucking
awesome and it's the bee's knees that's
why most people do it because it's fun
and look training should be fun so huge
win there
and
individuals or muscle groups on
individuals which are very large very
strong very fast twitch fiber oriented
or proportioned
those folks and the muscles for which
they're training who have traditionally
overdone the volume and under recovered
when they try hit because those muscles
respond so well to going close to
failure and Beyond because those muscles
take such a huge amount of time to
recover
and because those muscles can't tolerate
a high volume of work through the week
switching to a more hit-like style for
those muscles can work wonders so for
specific kinds of muscles especially
muscles like I would say the hamstrings
respond really well to hit training in
most people hit training is like awesome
and it just works it just works better
those are upsides those are big upsides
let's talk about downsides
first
while Mike mentor and Jordan Peters and
Dorian Yates enormous people two-thirds
of whom are from England
they can get a robust stimulus doing
five or six sets of back or chest or
legs a week whatever they're doing
kind viewer may not be able to do that
you are not as fast twitch you are not
as strong you recover way faster and
you're capable of doing more
and so if you try doing four sets of
chest a week hit all out failure dope
you'll get good results and then one of
your buddies will be like dude try my
program with me it's more like a
bodybuilding kind of like pump volume
program
and you start doing 8 12 16 sets of
chest per week and your chest just
fucking blows up
what are you supposed to think about
that well clearly you were way under
doing the volume you could have
and now you're appropriately training
closer to your maximum recoverable
volume the idea that all of the muscles
in your body can grow best on just a few
sets a week is on principle wrong
because all of your muscles of the body
have different maximum recoverable
volumes how many sets of wrist curls to
failure do you think you can do before
your forearms fatigue so much you can't
train them for the rest of the week what
are you fuck crazy sure shit not gonna
be four sets bro not per week your
glutes your quads your chest maybe
they're so big and strong the low volume
is plenty but for other muscles I mean
like think about back lats
spinal Erectors if you do a lot of rows
and pull-ups man and like still you
could still do more and the more you do
the more you grow up to a really high
point
next
it's also potentially very tough to get
maximum growth from just training a
muscle once a week and I mean this is at
hit core adherent philosophy is if
you're training muscle twice a week most
hit people will be like
that ain't it and you're like but I'm
doing all the other stuff I'm going
close to failing there's just two sets
like no no no no recovery is important
you do a whole week some of the guys at
the end of the real hit era in the 80s
were saying that you got to train a
muscle every two weeks if you really
want it to grow okay
the research in in this is Crystal Clear
higher frequencies in the short term at
least result in better outcomes
and more specifically an individual who
has trained the muscle very hard but has
healed halfway through the week like
that's not sore anymore if you did some
curls you would perform at the highest
level ever that person would be much
we're growing much more if they just
trained when they were ready and didn't
just arbitrarily wait the rest of the
week
so it's hard to get maximum growth for
everyone from just training a muscle
once a week most people will get better
results flat out training pretty much
every muscle twice a week some people
better three times a week for some
muscles some people four times a week
for some muscles and some folks could
train a muscle every day and get their
best results it's happened before
I mean there's that whole Squad everyday
phenomenon that happened about 10 years
ago that everyone was really pumped
about and a lot of people got the best
results they've ever gotten for their
leg size squatting every day and you
also have the hit people that say you
got to go once a week I mean where's the
daylight between those two clearly it's
some people just have higher maximum
recovery volumes and respond to more
frequency than others and if you're one
of those people it's just not going to
work that well for you
lastly
if you go to failure versus not you get
better growth in that session than not
if you're well within your maximum
recoverable volume and you have no
recovery problems going to failure will
result in better growth than not
but if you're really pushing the pace
you're really pushing your limits you're
training as much as you can with ultra
high quality
sets of two and one reps in reserve
probably have a slightly better stimulus
to fatigue ratio because of one
quintessential fact
training two failure or beyond for real
for real is such an emotional experience
it requires you to recruit so much of
your latent ability that the fatigue
result is fucking massive it is
exponentially higher than the linear
increase in stimulus so as you get
closer to failure from five reps to zero
your stimulus goes up like this your
fatigue goes up like that
so at the end of the day going to
failure or far beyond failure
consistently with a program that is of
the appropriate volume that maximizes
your growth may be unsustainable or
rather less sustainable than if you
trained a little easier
three two one zero reps in reserve as
the progression occurs through a cycle
you might actually be able to just
straight up grow more because you never
accumulate that
fatigue that stops you dig your tracks
and goes it's time to deal with bro
you're not making any more PR's
those are three big downsides let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you could choose to make your
own you can modify an existing program
or you could just run the programs
exactly as they were written by me
personally this app programs everything
for you exercises weights sets reps
frequency the whole thing after every
single workout on every single week the
app adjusts to your unique parameters
with every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
best practices
how do we take all this and go forward
let's say you want to try hit or you
know hit had some really good ideas
let's say you want to integrate them in
or let's say you're doing it and you
looked at the downsides and you're like
that fuck that's pretty compelling
still kind of want to do hit how do I do
it in a way that's better I have some
tips
first
always everywhere focus on Amazing
technique through every rep and a
shitload of high relative effort whether
you stop three reps in reserve or zero
every single rep is Meaningful and with
good technique you're not there to mail
anything in fact
next
only do as many sets as you can recover
from No Junk volume
and the number of sets you can recover
from may surprise you if you hit point
number one there if you hit amazing
technique and a high relative effort in
the sets you may not have to do a lot of
sets for muscles
folks using the RPI pertrophy app just
released while after recording this
video just a few months ago a lot of
people are starting to use it it's kind
of cool I'm getting paid a lot of money
here folks my Butlers have no idea how
many Lambos to buy tough problem
so a lot of people have been saying like
hey I've been using the pump and
soreness ratings which automatically
adjust your volume by the way in the app
and they're like I don't I'm doing like
four sets of hamstrings a week
and I'm like okay how are your results
like they're the biggest and strongest
they've ever been like okay
so and they're like that just seems off
and I'm like well hit guys did one set
of hamstrings a week and they grew
really well they're like okay okay okay
I just I'm used to doing more well you
can be used to doing more if you're not
training as hard and you're not training
with a high degree of focus and you just
did more reps just cause or did more
sets just cause that's junk volume
get your hamstrings pumped
get them tired get them sore for a few
days come back and do it again if that
takes two sets or three sets or one set
of really good stiff-legged dinosaur
good mornings per session that's what it
takes a lot of it's so funny because I
for a long time I've had a lot of
negative things to say about hit which I
stand by all of them and some of them I
said here and I got the you know I was
exploring and earlier in my career
maximum recoverable volume so you know
advocating that hey like sometimes 25
sets a week is what grows muscle the
best it's by the way very true for many
people in many cases I got sort of this
uh uh labeled as a high volume guy which
was always wrong anyways there's nobody
who labeled me that had any Nuance or
actually read anything I wrote and then
people now see my training that I post
all of my training on the RPI perch fee
app on my Instagram including the
screens of what I actually did and
they're like did you really just do two
sets of hamstrings for that workout I'm
like yep sure did and they're like uh
is that's enough for you really and I'm
like yes
and look I love training hamstrings I
want to do five sets of hams but I can
because after one straight set two reps
away from failure and a Maya rep match
set which reaches close to failure three
times in the second set
my hamstrings are done they're fully
pumped and they get sore for three days
which is when my next leg workout is so
yeah you would be surprised at how
little volume you need in many cases and
it looks like including me you're
training like your hit guy all of a
sudden for some of your muscles for
others you're training like you know the
90s volume Bros that did 25 sets per
muscle group all the time
next
yes starting your muscle Cycles from
roughly three reps in reserve is
generally a good idea for most people
but for some muscles or for some
individuals you can try starting at two
or even one rep in reserve just leave
one rep in the tank in week one
especially Advanced lifters that have
gotten all of their major gains out of
training just normal hard might for some
troubling muscles for them
need to push the pace a little bit more
need to go beyond failure or need to
start closer to failure and go beyond
failure sooner
you may not benefit from this it might
just burn you out it burned me out most
the time so this is not the right answer
but it's something to try to see if that
hit philosophy really does work for you
on the margins
and included in this approach of
starting at two or one rir is implied
that if you do this for three or four
weeks before a deload you may get into a
situation where your second to last week
was everything to failure
your last week the week after that
you go beyond failure so every set ends
with bottom end stretch partials or your
body helps you on the on the concentric
and you do The Eccentric or you do a
drop set or you do some four straps
every set that you do or almost every
set or the last set of the exercise in
that last week is beyond failure oh shit
if that doesn't grow you don't worry
you're not growing muscle anymore just
pick up tennis or
Cricket or some shit like that because
you're done getting jacked I'm kidding
sort of
that is what it could take to get you
your next level of gains and if that
doesn't work very well it's not for you
or not for that muscle you tried it on
which is totally possibility but if you
want to try it this is kind of how to
try it
lastly and very very importantly you
want to Auto regulate your weekly volume
how many sets should I do for hamstrings
four two sets four sets or six sets well
it depends if it's a new exercise and a
new rep range for you starting with two
sets seems wise but after a few weeks
you'll notice that two sets barely gets
you sore at all and you're so ready to
go by your next hamstring session that
you should be doing three or four cents
and before you deload your work capacity
is so high you're so used to the
exercise you need five or six sets in
order to drive all the adaptations and
actually get you so tired and sore and
beat up that it takes you half a week to
heal for the next hamstring workout
through your mesocycle on average from
your first week to say your fifth week
before you deload on average your volume
abilities will go up that doesn't mean
you prospectively add sets you're not
like okay I did five this time I'm gonna
do six next time it's all based on
feedback
if you're healing way ahead of time
you're barely getting fucked up and you
can tell yourself like literally days
before I do this muscle again I can do
it already add more sets next time add a
set or two to that earlier in the week
muscle group so that it gets more beat
up so that your healing just on time for
next session
if you're healing just on time for next
session do not add any sets if you do
legs Monday Thursday and your last leg
workout you healed Wednesday night
Thursday you woke up and for the first
time you weren't sore and tired and
you're ready to go
if it was six sets of of quads you did
that Monday next Monday it's six sets
again you know six sets is the answer
and of course if it's six sets is not
enough and next time you heal by Tuesday
then it's seven or eight sets the next
week that's how that works and
if it's too much volume subtract again
the hamstring thing people will do four
sets of hamstring curls with Maya reps
and it'll do four sets of stiff-legged
deadlifts later that week and they'll
say dude I'm like overlapping sore all
the time there's not a time when I'm not
sore I train store I don't even start
being sore I started being sore in week
one the week three I'm still sore from
the first fucking session as far as I
can tell that continual overlapping
damage and damage and damage is not
making a lot of room for growth it's a
bad idea and it's probably increasing
your injury risk so if you are hitting
your muscles so hard that they're not
recovered by the next session take their
volumes and reduce them
and
even if you think this is so little
compared to the usual it's all about the
stimulus and the recovery
people say Hey listen I used to do eight
sets for back now I'm doing four am I
going to lose muscle first of all
there's a thing called maintenance
volume which is generally a third or
less of normal volume so if your normal
volume to grow is eight sets two or
three sets per week can make sure your
back never gets smaller so four sets
sure shit not making your back smaller
that's crazy
it could make your back bigger but
slower than eight sets did but how do
you know if that's the case look if
eight sets was too much and you were
still sore and beat up for your next
workout you go down to four and four is
just right you just barely recover on
time that has to be the correct answer
because how could it not if you do less
you could have done more and benefited
if you do more you're training while
you're tired and sore and fatigue which
is stupid and backwards and wrong so if
it really is four sets of back is better
for you than eight sets
don't worry if you're getting a great
stimulus to fatigue ratio if you're
healing exactly on time or close and if
you're progressing well because some
guys will be like dude I lowered my my
back work down to four sets I don't know
about this man I'm used to eight a
couple weeks later like dude how's it
going they're like fuck getting strong
bro just fucking healing every time
getting just I'm at my best ever what do
you really have to ask if for is enough
of course it's enough of course it's
better than eight because of that you
just got fatigued and then you're like
ah I can't hit any more PR's I'm tired
making sure you dose your training
appropriately to the recovery window is
a huge critical factor of training
if that's a little training looks more
like hit to me if it's a lot of training
looks like it's not the answer if you
want to train closer to failure your
training is going to have to condense
maybe in frequency but definitely in
volume and then it looks more like hit
if you want to train further away from
failure you're going to get pretty close
to the same results except you'll have
to do more volume but the sets won't be
as close to failure as you make the
adjustments side to side make sure to
make all of the compensatory adjustments
so that you get the only thing that
really matters ultra high quality
training that beats you up just enough
to get you ready to go barely for next
time you do that you combine it with
your nutrition you are fucking enormous
get into the link in the description
download your copy of the RP hypertrophy
app use it it'll hook you up and it's
really open to all this kind of training
so do whatever you like folks thanks for
tuning in see you next time