get the fuck
out okay if there's an exercise that's
more of a clown show circus exercise
I've never seen it this is Peak Peak
clown
work hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am the
creator of the RP hypertrophy app and a
professor of exercise and sports science
at Lan College in the Bronx in New York
City and I am going to be evaluating Mr
LeBron James's weight training today I'm
not qualified to value at his basketball
training but his weight training I will
take a look at let's see what he's doing
right what he's doing wrong how he get
better and uh if uh he's really as bad
as the Hollywood stuff I sure hope not
let's C the
video Men's Health not a good
sign hi guys Mike Manas here Mike Manas
nasm CES and PES athletic trainer and
recovery
specialist let's find out what he knows
athletic trainer for LeBron James for
the past 16 years okay so uh is already
a misnomer I think because athletic
trainer is someone who helps you recover
from injuries uh they're not folks that
are experts in designing programs to
make you actively better than you would
have otherwise been that is something a
strength conditioning specialist does
maybe I'm reading way too much into this
let's let's find out what this really is
today we're at V gym in Los Angeles and
I want to take you guys through a quick
demonstration on I like that in one of
the shots he's like at eye level with
LeBron's asshole he's like yo what up yo
what up oh anyway how shit up there that
includes Mobility work some
cardiovascular conditioning uh upper
body strength training lower body
strength training and most importantly
some core and Recovery techniques okay
we've got Mobility work which uh can be
a thing if there are known Mobility
deficits diagnosed from sport partic
participation potentially that's a thing
though proper weight training should
resolve all of those cardiovascular work
is um usually not uh wise idea in
basketball usually you want your
basketball playing and your basketball
related drills that a sport coach would
manage for you to be at least the vast
majority of a cardiovascular World why
in almost all sport do you want most of
your cardio to come from practicing the
sport and practicing derivative moves
from the sport is because if you just do
cardio with a it has nothing to do with
sport like running a treadmill uh it
gives you the cardio to be better at at
basketball or boxing or MMA but doesn't
give you any of the skills transfer it
doesn't give you any tactics it doesn't
actually make you better at any part of
the sport except making your red blood
cells you know slightly higher in
concentration Etc and making your local
musculature a little bit better with
buffering metabolites if you instead do
much of your or most or maybe all of
your cardio inside sport training for
example in basketball doing drills uh
running around in various ways taking
passes
that can really get your heart rate
going it's incredible cardio but it's
also exactly sport specific to the sport
of basketball and it lets you work on
skills and tactics that you would in
basketball so it checks a bunch of boxes
at the same
time all right guys so the first thing
we'll talk about is preparation now
preparation doesn't start once you get
to the gym but it starts the night
before you get to the gym and that
includes a good night's sleep sleep is
important right on I agree uh a great
dinner great dinner is important okay
just you know the nutrition of the day
before absolutely potentiates your
workout you sleep well you eat well the
day before you're going to have an
amazing workout the next day chances are
if you sleep poorly and eat poorly the
day before your workout the next day is
not a professional attempt at working
out which I might add since LeBron is a
professional basketball player me the
professional basketball player this
should all be thought through so it's
great that his coach is doing that and
in the morning we'll have a pre-workout
Shake on the way to the gym about half
hour before before we start our workout
pre-workout Shake sounds quite good it
can give you plenty of energy and make
sure your workout goes as well plenty of
hydration once we get to the gym we'll
start with about 8 to 10 minutes of foam
rolling okay so 8 10 minutes of foam
rolling uh what foam rolling does pretty
well is uh when it hits a certain area
there's a neural modulation effect where
your nervous system is typically
perceiving that area to be generating
some pain and some discomfort and by
foam rolling that area or even another
area you can take the nervous system and
kind of desensitize it a little bit
there's nothing physical mechanical
working with foam rolling people say you
know breaks down adhesions and and
really releases your fascia that's
almost certainly not true because we
have very good understanding of the
kinds of forces required to actually
make tissue changes and they're like uh
100 times higher than a force the
strongest person in the world could
exert with a foam roller like you could
make the fascia change in its
confirmational structure if you rolled
like one of those asphalt rollers over
it and well if you want to put your leg
under an asphalt roller I suppose it'll
really warm you up uh
permanently but you'll be really ready
to be a pancake forever which is nice if
LeBron needs it and it makes him feel
better dope if this is more like uh sort
of a prophylactic thing prehab thing
which prehab is the stupidest thing in
the world then yeah that then it's not a
good idea then it's just uh just kit
just throwing things at the wall and now
the next exercise that will incorporate
after our form rolling uh is called it's
called a Spider-Man exercise Spider-Man
now truth be told Scott video guy how
how off color can we get here I mean Max
can always cut it the editor can always
get it Thanks Max I was inclined to
believe that the Spider-Man is when you
know what I'm saying this is going to
get real as fuck with the consenting
partner everyone's having fun you pull
out right when you're about to ski and
you ski into your own hand and then he
or she or they look up and you
go all right if you guys like that we
have an Extended Cut available for
members only so hit the join button to
become a member Johnny who's going to
demonstrate for us it's a c all how
pathetic uh the proper technique for
Spider-Man great range of motion there
great hip opener uh in preparation for
activity it's not that great of a hip
opener you can open your hips much more
if you just sink down into a slow sumo
squat and you take your hands and you
push your knees open squeeze your
shoulder blades as your chest nears the
floor and he's like I don't know who
makes up these tips oh there's a dog in
this there's a dog in the left hand
corner he's kind of chilling um yeah
insert random nonsense from Men's Health
after know whether our hip opener and
Mobility routine now we start with a
total body cardiovascular warm-up total
body cardiovascular warm-up okay one of
the machines that I love to use in the
gym it's called the Versa climber all
these guys use a versa climber vers
climber is very challenging it is very
difficult to do it'll warm you up really
fast so about uh 30 seconds to a minute
on the Versa climber at a decent pace is
all the warming up that you could need
let's see what he says I would do three
sets of 30 seconds each with about 15 to
20 seconds rest in between each set not
terrible not terrible just one of those
would be fine but fine all right so
Johnny's now going to demonstrate how to
probably execute a vers climber
technique okay so he hits the versal
climber real fast right
away that is backwards if you're going
to do three sets the first one you
should be very lazy with like literally
moving really slow just to get your body
grooving if you need this kind of
warming up the second set you should be
pretty brisk Pac the third set you
should get into it and and get a a
little bit out of breath at the end then
you'll be really warm and it's safe the
whole time it's a graded warm-up that's
the whole thing about warming up it's
gradations this guy just gets right into
the uh Versa climber really fast don't
think he needs to warm up if he's ready
to just
go all right strength training finally
one of our favorite exercises to do for
upper body core conditioning and and
strength again upper body core
conditioning which I really don't know
what that means that's three words
thrown together and I don't know how
they link and I'm a professor I wonder
what he knows that I don't let's find
out is called the inverted row the
inverted row is one of the easiest
exercises
ever what and that's the movement right
there all right guys so for this the
count rep is about 8 to 12 and we'll do
about three sets of each why is that guy
only coming up to like 2 in under the
bar touch the bar motherfucker you look
real talk um as far as a a movement of
upper body pulling this is a great
movement great for LeBron he's got long
ass arms this be nice and challenging
for him if you grade it progress it find
out how to load it maybe have him wear a
heavier weight vest over time this
movement can be an awesome addition to
being able to make a a stronger more
muscular basketball player so the
movement is good the justifications are
generally nonsense all right guys so for
our next upper body and actually a total
body movement here uh one of my
favorites again is called the the
landmine rotational press so landmine
rotational press it ends up being an
exercise that looks cool as a
demonstration it's great for for General
Family Fun and Fitness like if you're in
a fitness class and you're 65 years old
it's cool to get the body moving around
with some load but if you push the
limiting factors like the only reason
we're in the gym for a professional
basketball players is to push his ass
it's unlikely that this exercise is
conducive to overloading both the
pulling and the pushing complex at the
same time and also um it really turns
into more of a grip exercise because the
end of a barbell believe it or not is
really hard to grip because it's already
kind of oily it's really really thick
much thicker than a regular bar and it
independently rotates so bad news uh
with this we start with a nice wide base
nice wide stance uh really engageing the
glutes engaging the core you load up
engaging the glutes and core is what
people say when they have nothing else
to say they just say like stay stable
and don't round over like a question
mark it's not the same thing as engaging
the glutes and the core I'm not I I I I
think people say that just because
people go okay core that means I'm going
to have lean ABS glutes that means I'm
going to have sweet ass people are going
to look at me and want to have sex with
me I think that's why people people say
it a lot it has nothing to do with how
anyone should ever be teaching this
movement you know part of LeBron's game
is playing Above the Rim and transfer
energy in the ground up up into the rim
and this is exactly what that exercise
is doing
okay so you can't be too explosive with
this exercise because you'll throw it
and then it'll flip onto someone and
kill them if I want energy transfer from
the ground an explosion I would much
rather see LeBron do a traditional
CrossFit style Thruster which is
basically a front squat that ends in a
push press you could also do a variety
of weightlifting dtive movements uh push
presses push jerks uh squat press all
this other kind of stuff you can do
loaded jumps you can do medicon ball
throws this is an exercise that though
looks like it sort of does triple
extension which is when you extend at
your ankles at your knees and your hips
the jump movement the most athletic
movement that humans can do it's only
cosmetically so because it's not
ballistic uh an exercise which you
really want power transfer from to fuel
athleticism you want it to be powerful
which means explosive and Ballistic
means at the very end of the exercise
you're throwing it he's not throwing
shit he's just finishing the movement
and locking it out it's one of those
exercises unfortunately there's very
many of these that people do and program
and trainers like to talk about it looks
athletic but it's not nearly as athletic
as it looks for summon of LeBron's
ability I would qualify this whole
workout so far as a warm-up a warm-up to
something I'm not not sure what but if
we were to take that exercise make it
something LeBron could benefit from we
would either need to do it explosively
where he gently sinks into a lunge and
then blows completely back out jumping
as high as he can or he does it for reps
to build hypertrophy and build
resilience but then he would have to
wear a weight vest or hold dumbbells or
something because body weight lunges are
not nearly difficult enough for an
athlete that can dunk a
basketball what do you get when PhD
Sports scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever
made get yours
now all right guys so you've seen the
exercises now let's talk about recovery
man if I count there were like three
exercises there's entire parts of the
body totally missing I don't know how
that falls into a training week but so
far not so good let's talk about
recovery since we work so hard so
recovery for us entails three different
things it's nutrition nutrition check
it's
Mobility does not have anything to do
with recovery Mobility but fine and just
a little bit of cryotherapy at the end
of the day
cryotherapy okie dokie cryotherapy
actively reduces the hypertrophic and
probably strength yield of your program
cryotherapy is something you do when you
have like back-to-back basketball games
and you don't want to be sore from one
of the games into the other game you do
some cryotherapy immediately after that
first game or really hard practice has
concluded so that you never start to
make the positive adaptations to your
body to begin with and thus the postive
adaptations they're awesome once you get
them but during the time that you're
getting them you're going to be stiff
and sore like if you know if you train
your legs really hard your legs get sore
a few days later they heal if you need
to be on point and use your legs a ton
that day after you don't want them sore
so if you do cryotherapy right after
your leg workout your legs will get much
less sore not sore at all they won't
grow they won't adapt they won't make
you better but right after the
cryotherapy in the next day you'll
actually feel really really fresh and
you'll feel like oh I can do this again
so cryotherapy is excellent in the
context of professional sports if we're
dealing with baseball players hockey
players basketball players that there's
a couple of games in a row where they
have to be on you want to give him
cryotherapy after every game that's a
very very good idea in a normal training
environment which is I assume where he's
going where we just spent an entire
session trying to elicit positive
adaptations like gains in strength and
hypertrophy cryotherapy is actually
going to work backward it's going to
work against us and the fact that this
gentleman doesn't know that means he's
at least 5 to 10 years out of date with
scientific literature which means uh you
know like uh I guess we could all be
better at a job I could be better
looking but God decided hey you're going
to look like uh Ninja Turtle and an M1
Abrams tank mixed together but you'll be
5 foot one and no one will talk to you
in
school so for us nutrition is easy
that's the latter plant-based protein
powder easy plant-based protein powder
recovery nutrition check plant-based
protein powder is totally fine though
especially if you're using a complete
plant protein which they often have to
um congeal together from a couple of
sources unless it's soy then it's
actually quite good for you so
plant-based protein powder is cool I
would prefer to also have carbohydrates
in there proteins plus carbs after
training is better than uh protein alone
for a variety of reasons recovery
potentiation of anabolism so on and so
forth so just the protein shake alone I
it's a good start it's not the best but
it's a good start okay so uh B+ so far B
minus uh and the second is mobility
again Mobility is the ability to have
strength through a given range of motion
Mobility is flexibility plus strength so
uh I don't I I know exactly what that
has to do with recovery and I'll I'll to
you guys in on this when you have a high
level of cumulative fatigue you've been
training for weeks really hard part of
your body's reaction mostly mediated by
the nervous system is it actually makes
you less flexible uh your tightness uh
correlates very well to your degree of
systemic fatigue and so if you impose
recovery modalities on that system
such as light training that's easier
than normal training lots of sleep lots
of food lots of relaxation over several
days and maybe even up to a week your
flexibility and thus Mobility rapidly
improves because that systemic fatigue
is going down but if you misinterpret
High chronic fatigue levels and their
effect on Mobility as a Mobility problem
and try to solve the mobility Problem by
being doing mobility drills the benefit
sort of is that you'll get some light
training in and that will help reduce
the fatigue but the actual working on
the mobility part isn't helping anything
cuz the mobility is the symptom it's not
the problem it's like you get some virus
that makes your lymph nodes blow up and
you're like hey we got a medicine to
make your lymph nodes come back down
like that's nice and all it'll make me
feel better but what's it doing about
the virus and the guy's like oh virus
I'm not a real doctor this guy a real
trainer it's what is uh it's what a CV
says n
that's that's me stretching him oh shit
he gets to stretch
LeBron dude if I was stretching LeBron
in that position he'd be like hey have a
good game I'll see you after he's like
what like I not sexually of course not I
mean unless no no no no but no no look
it was whatever you need
man locker room is a lonely Place post
exercise stretching it can feel very
nice has no research confirmed benefits
for recovery and has uh seemingly no
theoretical rationale for Recovery as
well so if you want to stretch if it
makes you feel good it's totally cool to
do a little bit of mild stretching after
the workout is it something that you're
like oh man like I don't feel like
stretching I'm in a rush I need to go
should I stretch I know it's important
it's not important it's not important
stretching is not important if he was a
very excellent trainer he could just cut
LeBron the real deal and be like look
bro this doesn't do shit let's get you
the fuck out of here go you'll do
whatever pro basketball players do
that's much more uh potentiating
recovery like play Playstation and have
goury food available to them at all
hours and I know hey Scot the video guys
LeBron
monogamous I has wife right he has a
wife done the whole NBA shit I've seen
real housewise a basketball uh ain't
nobody monogamous up in that mother on
the road we fill up his uh his hotel
room bath with with ice water on the
road that makes some sense especially if
he has big games coming up or it can be
something simple as as a foot bath Co
and there's a lot of ice on Mr LeBron
it's uh yeah playing basketball ball
into your later years is a mother is he
icing his dick cell phone wife he's like
ah shit hey honey no no no I didn't use
it like that no baby they're they're
nothing to me they're no one I didn't
even know her name all right I'll see
you at 12 all right so we won over a lot
today but just remember some of the
simplest routines and exercises are
probably the ones that are most
beneficial for you yes that's actually
true some of the most simple routines
and exercises probably the most
beneficial to you and we saw just mostly
kind of complex stuff um justified in a
bunch of different weird ways as long as
you focus on your intensity you focus on
your movement there was no intensity
demonstrated focus on your movement is a
good idea and that's when you see some
results Great Canon fodder for mental
health they're like just say stuff so we
can have outro music
play
more get
the okay if there's an exercise that's
more of a clown show circuit exercise
I've never seen it this is Peak Peak
clown work this entire exercise is going
to confer one advantage it's good
practice to do this trick on social
media as far as general qualities that
can be siphoned from this to go to
basketball or any other thing that's not
a thing General balance training does
not transfer to various other sports and
LeBron's basketball specific ability to
balance is so frighteningly high the
only thing that can improve that that is
his Challenge on the basketball court
with Mother pushing him around that's
it I love that there's gangster wap on
in the background like M you ain't hard
doing this shit is the least hard shit
anyone's ever done let's address a few
things if how should athletes actually
train for example basketball athletes in
the gym they should take the core
movement patterns pushing with your legs
pulling with your upper body pushing
with your upper body pushing and pulling
with your whole body break those down
into very simple lifts deficit deadlifts
stiff-legged deadlifts the weightlifting
derivatives pulls mid thigh pulls hang
cleans push presses squats front squats
bench presses dumbbell presses Smith
machine throws medicine ball throws you
take all that real good stuff pull-ups
rows Etc and you take the
gnarliest compound heavy versions of
those and sets a 5 to 10 reps and you
get that athlete stronger in that rep
range and they're going to put on a ton
of muscle when you're doing that you're
also doing some sets of three to six
work even heavier to get them stronger
and while you're doing that you're doing
some very limited work of very
lightweight explosively to develop power
something like a medicine ball slam or
something like that Smith machine
barbell throw as you get closer to the
season you do less muscle growth work
more strength work and a little bit more
power work when you get to their season
or very close to it you almost
completely eliminate the hypertrophy
work you just keep the strength work
sets of three to six in the same
compound gnarly heavy movements and then
you expand the amount of power work that
they're doing focusing on jumps and
throws and pios so that they're peaked
for that power performance which the
repeat power is the only thing that
really matters in basketball after the
end of their season you give them a few
weeks off and you bring them in and you
start to work mostly on hypertrophy
again that's actual sport Science that's
how you're supposed to train Elite
athletes the reason Elite athletes are
often not trained like this is that they
are the people that choose who trains
with them and how they have the
preferences and they mostly just want to
train their Sport and when they do
resistance training they mostly want
want it to be as easy as possible so
they don't get sore and tired for their
sport because most athletes don't know
modern periodization they are not sport
scientists they are not sport coaches
they don't know how to put together a
good plan but whatever they say because
they cost millions of dollars other
people will do including their trainers
and if they find a trainer they work
well with which is usually a guy that
just gets along with them well tells
them a little bullshit about how this
exercise is helping this and that make
it seem like it's challenging but in a
way that doesn't beat them up like
balance training and Bose ball stuff
they'll keep that guy around because
yeah my trainer's great and we do
training and we check that box and
everything's fine but training is not
about checking a box training is about
going hard and most of the folks in
basketball don't know how to go hard
without up their game you're a real
sport scientist for that there's just
not that many of us around and no Mr
LeBron I haven't returned your calls and
know I won't be your personal coach just
kidding if you want to holler at your
boy I'm saying got a few slots open
anyway that workout gets three out of 10
for mostly useless why is LeBron so good
at
basketball genetics are mother also he
play basketball for 20 years see you
guys next
[Music]
time