if you are going to train with weights
which you should be you should plan to
train right before your eating window
opens up the best time to eat for weight
training is right after training and if
you can get a ton of food in which if
you're intermittent fasting you're going
to get a ton of food in after training
that is precisely the time to do it you
don't want a situation which you train
in the morning and then you spend the
rest of the day fasting and your muscles
are like ah help we're not recovering
we're not growing and then when they're
less sensitive and less ready to grow
and recover later in the evening you're
feeding them again so a good way to fast
is to wake up go to work do all your
things take some caffeine really train
super hard maybe between 4: and 6:00
p.m. or something like that or 5: to
7:00 and then at 7:00 p.m. or whatever
come home and your feeding window begins
it feeds your muscles a ton it feeds
your fat less than it would because your
muscles soak up a bunch of the nutrients
it recovers you really well it
potentiates the muscle growth over the
night and then the next day you begin
the process all over again it aligns
really really really well as opposed to
training some random time throughout the
day of the morning and then not eating
right after you
train