even junk food is okay if the
preponderance of your intake may be 75
or so comes from healthy foods so like
if you eat mostly a really good diet
like for lunch you have like salmon and
fucking brown rice and broccoli for
breakfast you had kind of a similar meal
and for dinner you have a great meal and
then like you're watching TV and you
have like half a pint of Ben and Jerry's
but you train hard enough to burn it off
earlier that day like I don't fucking
you're not gonna die you're totally fine
like it's just not a thing that food is
just some kind of any amount of junk
food kills you that's BS and certainly
no amount of apples and oranges can
counter balance in some way some
negativity you added with other food if
you meet your Macros and calories and
eat mostly healthy sources you're
totally good there's no more Super to
add to that