all right what is going on everyone
welcome to the next installment of the
fundamental series I'm going to do a
super quick review on this one because I
know we just did one in the last video
but very quickly we've got our ladder
over here I'm just going to go through
what we've covered your program has to
be safe and enjoyable in order for it to
be sustainable over time you have to be
willing to put in the effort otherwise
the rest of this stuff isn't gonna work
much for you you have to apply
progressive overload meaning you have to
be doing something extra every time
you're in the gym or at least every week
you should try to do something a little
bit more you want to prioritize your
goals meaning whatever your weak points
are you want to train them earlier in
the workout or earlier in the week when
you're fresh and also then we get into
the acute training variables so we've
covered three of those for volume we
said that roughly 10 to 20 sets per week
is probably a good spot for most
beginner early intermediates for a
frequency you want to be hitting every
body part at least twice per week
ideally not just once per week and then
in the last video we covered intensity
and loads so basically how heavy should
you be training and we said that most of
your reps most of your sets should come
in this 6 to 15 reps own and there's
nothing necessarily magical about that
zone but it is a little bit more
practical since you don't run into the
same injury risk and volume issues that
you tend to see below 6 reps and you
don't run into the same fatigue and
recovery issues as you tend to see above
15 reps so that brings us to the topic
of this video which is going to be
exercise selection so are there certain
exercises that you should be
prioritizing are there certain exercises
that are better than others so first as
a general principle I think that
especially as a beginner you want to be
prioritizing exercises that use they use
large muscle masses so they use a large
amount of muscle mass I'm generally
speaking these are going to be the
compound movements over here however I
don't think that they should make up all
of your routine I'm not quite that
minimalistic
but from an efficiency perspective in a
general strength perspective and an
athletic perspective I think that these
exercises that use large amounts of
muscle masses are better and so these
compound movements are basically multi
joint movements and so they involve more
than one joint so just for example let's
just take the benchpress you'd be using
muscles that act at the elbow joint so
mainly your triceps as you extend the
elbows and then you're also going to be
using muscles that act on the shoulder
joint as your pecs and also your
deltoids and so it's a multi joint
movement using a large degree of
musculature compared with an isolation
movement which tends to use only one
joint or it's only activating muscles
that act on one joint and so an example
of that would be like say a bicep curl
where you're activating the bicep and
the elbow joint is really the only joint
where the action is happening okay so
before we get into those first of all I
want to address machines versus free
weights I actually think that people
come down a little bit too hard on one
side or the other of this I think that
both machine based exercises and free
weight exercises can have their place in
a training program for beginners
intermediates and advanced trainees and
there are advantages and disadvantages
to each the obvious advantage of free
weights are that they tend to be more
transferable I think to other exercises
so from a general strength and general
athleticism perspective these exercises
tend to have more strength carry over to
the more say isolation movements or at
least I would argue that and also free
weight exercises tend to involve the
stabilizing muscles more so just for
example comparing a machine shoulder
press to a free weight dumbbell shoulder
press you tend to see more stabilization
involved in the dumbbell press which is
a free weight movement because the
rotator cuff kind of has to be more
stable since you're not locked into that
machine and also you tend to get more of
the side delts involved because that
helps to sort of stabilize the the arm
and prevent it from going forwards or
backwards so the advantage of free
weights you get
let's do it up here more transfer
strength transfer to other exercises and
you have a better training of the
stabilizer muscles potentially downside
of using free weights is that they can
be a little bit more difficult to learn
for a beginner and which can be
frustrating so this is obviously an
advantage of machines that they tend to
be a little bit easier to do for a
beginner who's new to the gym they might
not want to learn the standing overhead
military press right away it might be
easier and more enjoyable for them to
use a machine shoulder press and there's
nothing necessarily wrong with that
either and both of these can be
effective at stimulating the muscles and
I think that using them in concert with
one another is perfectly acceptable also
I think is worth mentioning that when
you're trying to learn these movements
especially the free weight movement
might not be a bad idea to consult a
personal trainer or recruit one of your
friends who knows how to lift and kind
of have them monitor and give you
feedback on your technique because I do
think that online coaching YouTube
videos really come up short in this
department and it's kind of difficult to
give people feedback through the
internet so I think that having someone
have a look at your technique is pretty
important especially as a beginner um
with that out of the way I'm just going
to go through my list of my favorite
compound movements for all the big
muscles over here and then I'm also
going to go through my favorite
isolation movements for some of the
smaller muscles or the muscles that
require more isolation so we're just
going to split these down the middle and
we're gonna start with the legs so for
the legs number one I've got the squat
listed here as number one just as a kind
of aside if I had to pick only one
exercise for the legs I would actually
probably be the hex bar deadlift which
is a really random movement and not a
lot of people do it now but I do really
like it because unlike the squat it hits
the hamstrings very well you're dead
lifting so you get more the upper body
musculature involved as well and then
you also hit the quads to a great degree
more than the normal
lift because you have to get down a
little bit further and the bar is kind
of more centered here in the midplane
and it also obviously gets the glutes
involved so if I had to pick only one
exercise probably overall for the lower
body you'd probably be the hex bar
deadlift but I usually don't recommend
it just because it is kind of random and
I don't really do it myself but in any
case I would say the squat in other than
the hex part deadlift would definitely
be my number one there is downsides to
it which is why you want to combine
exercises but it's great for activating
the quads and it's also pretty darn good
at activating the glutes as well other
than the squat you'd also want a
deadlift variation so this is going to
hit the hamstrings not a lot of people
realize that the squat is actually a
pretty bad hamstring exercise but the
deadlift isn't quite so bad and the
deadlift is also going to hit the glutes
as well
I mean I say deadlift variation here
because if we're speaking strictly from
a hypertrophic muscle building
perspective I would say that I'd
probably go with a straight leg dead
lift or a Romanian deadlift over here
rather than a deadlift from the floor
just because I think that that's going
to get the hamstrings a little bit more
involved it's going to be a little bit
less taxing you have a little bit more
of an eccentric component etc slightly
more advanced topics but I do really
like the Romanian deadlift over here so
with that I basically just want to set
your hips back keep us only a slight
bend in your knees and lower the weight
until it's just below your knees and
then stand back up basically and compare
that with say the conventional deadlift
or the sumo deadlift which I recommend
one of those too from a pure strength
building perspective you're gonna have
the plate set on the floor and you're
basically just gonna there's a lot more
to it mechanically but bend down and
pick the weight up for people who maybe
only want to grow their glutes which I
know is a goal of a lot of women the hip
thrust is probably your best option here
because the squat is gonna hit the quads
more than the glutes and the hip thrust
is really gonna target the glutes more
than these without also growing the
thighs so I just wanted to
include that one there since it is very
very effective at activating the glutes
okay so up next is the back and for the
back you basically just want to include
one horizontal pull in one vertical pull
and the reason I put the horizontal pull
first is because this is going to hit
the whole back so it's gonna hit the
traps and rhomboids of the mid-back and
it's also going to hit the lats which
create that sort of V taper and wider
shoulder appearance up top so I put this
one first because it hits both so that
would be basically any kind of row so
barbell rows dumbbell rows cable rows
they're all good and then you also want
to include a vertical pole which is
going to hit the lats more so that would
be like a lat pulldown and I go into a
lot of detail about the different grip
variations and the different slight
exercise tweaks on those and my science
explained series but I see that as
slightly more of an advanced thing as a
beginner you just want to execute these
movements through full range of motion
use a grip that feels comfortable to you
and just focus on focus on having two
planes of motion of pulling for your
back
you should be covered up next is the
chest so here you basically just want to
include a horizontal press that's pretty
simple so you can use dumbbells barbell
doesn't really matter too much from my
perspective the main thing you want to
focus on is just progressively getting
stronger with it and choose one that you
can do safely comfortably and
consistently essentially also we can
include a fly here but if you think
about it a pressing motion and a fly
motion is almost the exact same movement
there's a slightly different rotation at
the shoulder but they're going to be
training the same basic movement pattern
and of course you can go heavier with
the horizontal press so for the sake of
efficiency I tend to prefer this one
especially for beginners but if you do
have a lagging chest might not be a bad
idea to include some kind of fly as a
sort of optional accessory movement for
your chest and I would classify the fly
as a isolation movement by the way I
just put it over here to keep it under
chest and keep it simple so last for the
compound movements
want to hit the shoulders primarily
through a vertical press for those I do
tend to prefer dumbbells just because
activation patterns tend to be higher
across the whole delt and in particular
the dumbbell press as I mentioned
earlier tends to show more activation of
the side delt so it kind of gives you
that x-frame sort of cap shoulder look
better at least in theory at least it
activates it more and so that the main
thing is that you want to be doing some
kind of press in the vertical plane if
that's a machine press and that's easier
for you that's perfectly acceptable but
my number one option would probably be
the dumbbell shoulder press for those
okay so i've next i'm going to cover the
isolation movements so first we've got
the rear delts the rear delts will be
targeted to a pretty large degree with
horizontal pull so i wouldn't say that
isolation work is required for the rear
delts however i would see the rear delts
as more of a secondary contributor to a
row not a prime mover and so anytime
you're doing a row the rear delts will
be assisting but they won't be kind of
the meaning thing firing and for that
reason I tend to prefer isolation
exercises for the rear delts and then my
number one for that is the reverse PEC
deck but also the bent-over reverse fly
with cables or with dumbbells is also
going to get the rear delts firing just
fine for the biceps the biceps will be
very active in the horizontal pull and
also the vertical pull however again
similar to the rear delts and they're
going to be kind of assistance muscles
and they're not going to be the prime
movers so I think that if you really
want your biceps to respond most
optimally I think it's a good idea to
include some kind of curl and I won't
over complicate this here like I said
earlier I go into a lot of detail on
those in my science explain videos but
for here we're just gonna say pick a
curl that is comfortable for you one
that you can do safely and one that you
enjoy the triceps again are going to be
very active in your horizontal pressing
in your vertical pressing however they
won't be maximally activated I don't
think unless you isolate them so you can
do that through a press down where your
arms
down at your sides doing a press down
with the bar or the rope and then you
can also do an extension up overhead and
there are slightly different activation
patterns across the two heads of the
triceps between these so in practice I
like to include both of these so maybe
I'm one day you do a press down with the
arms down on the other day an extension
with the arm up overhead but I think
that that is kind of splitting hairs as
long as you have some kind of tricep
isolation movement in your program you
should have your bases covered
for the hamstrings this is really
interesting and not a lot of people
realize that one of the four muscles of
the hamstrings so that biceps femoris
short head actually doesn't even cross
the hip joint so doing just deadlift
variations won't hit this muscle at all
so it simply just won't be activated and
really in order to activate it you have
to do some kind of leg curl it is a
smaller muscle so I wouldn't say that
it's required but to really kind of
maximize the hamstrings as a whole I do
recommend that you not only have some
deadlift variation but that you also
have some kind of leg curl or glute-ham
raise or something where you're
basically bringing your foot up towards
your butt and curling your leg up so the
calves
I just like to include some kind of
standing calf raise with the most
important thing being that you have a
pause at the bottom to sort of dissipate
that elastic energy and that momentum
that a lot of people use so at the
bottom of every rep you want to do at
least like a one or maybe two second
pause if you really have lagging calves
and I would recommend also throwing in
some kind of seated calf raise variation
just because the soleus muscle which is
actually the bigger of the two calf
muscles more involved however the
standing calf raise will hit both the
soleus and the gastrocnemius so you
should have hair bases covered with a
simple standing calf raise but like I
said if they're stubborn throw in a
seated variation also the donkey calf
raise is a really good one so if you
happen to have it at your gym
I recommend trying that one out for a
bit of variety perhaps and then finally
when it comes to the ABS there's a
common misconception that squats and
deadlifts are really good ab exercises
but they're simply not so I think that
to really develop the six-pack you want
to be doing
kind of crunch where are you bringing
your upper torso down towards the
midline and you also want to include
some kind of leg raise or your bring
your lower torso up toward the midline
and that'll talk target both the upper
abs and the lower abs and you want to do
this crunch with some kind of resistance
so cable weighted cable crunch or a
plate loaded crunch I'm something that
gets some attention on the six-pack and
then as for the surrounding course of
the obliques and the TVA I am a fan of
plank exercises so you time yourself and
hold the plank and try to increase the
time week to week and also some anti
rotation movements like fell off presses
are great for targeting and kind of the
sides and the core as a whole however I
think that also the squats and deadlifts
and all these compound movements in
general will activate this a little bit
more however if you want that six-pack
you really do need to isolate so I think
that's gonna conclude the exercise
selection section though there's one
thing I forgot to mention over here and
that is how do you or do you feel the
exercise working so this is something
that actually do emphasize I think that
if you're doing an exercise and you say
you just really don't feel it working in
the target muscle let's just take for
example the back and you're doing wide
grip pull-ups and you just think I
really just don't feel that in my lats
at all but then you switch to say a
closed grip pulldown and you can really
feel your lats firing I think that
that's an indication that you should
probably go with the close grip pull
down over the pull-up so I think that
how an exercise actually feels in the
target muscle is a good indication that
it's working however it's not the only
thing that you should pay attention to
especially as a beginner I think that
for some of these movements maybe
shouldn't focus like in particular let's
say the squat deadlift and some of these
compound exercises I think that you
should focus on really mastering the
technique before you start worrying
about mind muscle connection and how the
exercise feels and the target muscle you
really just want to focus on using your
body as a whole and executing the
movement and the biomechanics themselves
will kind of take care of the activation
however for some of these more
installation based movements
particularly like say the rear delts the
hamstrings it probably is a good idea to
really think about using that target
muscle so other muscles don't start to
sort of take over so with that out of
the way I would say that that's about
all I have to say about exercise
selection hopefully you guys found this
one to be informative if you did please
leave me a thumbs up and if you're new
to the series don't forget to check out
the previous episodes where we cover all
this more important stuff I hope over
here or I should say at least as
important and if you happen to be new
don't forget to subscribe and I'll see
you guys all here in the next video
where we're going to talk about rest
periods tempo and periodization
[Music]