these are the most underrated exercises
for muscle growth at least in the good
doctor's
opinion Dr pack here real doctor no
gimmicks I got a call the other day from
a patient of mine who said Doctor pack
are you actually a real doctor because
I've been paying you for a while for
duties that you haven't been fulfilling
I asked you for a prescription you send
me a Minimum dose training template I
keep asking you about my upcoming
surgery you're not responding to my
messages and you're just saying LOL go
lift and other terms that are not very
uh YouTube friendly and I was like
listen I don't have time for this
brother have the surgery get back to
training who cares we are freaks here to
talk to you about exercises that in my
humble opinion are underrated when it
comes to hypertrophy starting with
deficit push-ups yes I said it push-ups
are one of these exercises because
people do push-ups in all sorts of
settings so people in the military
combat athletes and just everybody does
push-ups and push-ups are considered as
one of those like beginner exercises or
just like general fitness testing
exercises when in reality even for the
most advanced of training push-ups are
an amazing exercise for your chest um uh
primarily but obviously you're getting
some front delt and tricep stimulus as
well and deficit push-ups specifically
allow you to get a nice stretch on your
pegs do not require much additional
equipment besides either a couple of
weight plates or dumbbells that allow
you to be stable on the ground or
push-up handles as I like to use cuz I
prefer a neutral grip if you're not an
absolute push-up Beast just by adding
the deficit and the positive and you can
make them into an amazing extremely time
efficient and not and very low deficient
exercise that you can do literally
wherever moving on to legs and more
specifically Smith machine squats Smith
machine squats are an excellent way for
you to get a ton of quad stimulus
without some of the usual limitations
that come with bar squats not just the
skill of becoming good at bar sads but
if you are not able to get very low if
for whatever reason you're lower back is
a limiting factor mying squats are an
easy way to overcome a lot of those
limitations you can adjust your stance
as you wish you can place your feet
further forward further backward do
literally whatever you want because you
know that you're not going to trip over
you're not going to fall you can really
really focus on controlling the weight
on the weight down getting a nice
stretch pausing and knowing that worst
case scenario if you fail the lift
itself you can just lock it in place and
that's about it
the main reason though why I think Smith
machine squats are underrated is because
they have gone a bad rep because they're
not a barell squat they're usually
considered an inferior exercise or not
as much of like a real lifter exercise
but when it comes to the hypertrophy
boxes that we need to take in order to
actually make solid muscle gains Smith
machine squats are an excellent option
and I definitely recommend them for all
my hypertrophy freaks out there I know
that this is a list for muscle growth
but I'm going to throw in a little
strength/ general hypertrophy and
overall fitness exercise which is trap
bar deadlifts trap bar deadlifts are not
used by a lot of people out there maybe
because I don't know people will see the
trap bar and I assume it's just for
athletes or has other specific uses but
when it comes to a really easy way for
you to get in hamstring Glu uh erector
and some qual work the TR bar deadlift
is a very easy way to do that without
having to necessarily learn how to do a
conventional deadlift or an RDL trying
the trap bar with the low handle so
flipping it increasing the range of
motion can be a great way for them to
learn how to deadlift to do some
deadlifts and then potentially even do
rdl's with the trap bar itself still
hitting all the muscle groups that the
deadlift is hitting much easier to learn
and you may see that that allows you to
then try other deadlift variations thus
getting the posterior chain of a Greek
god I guess not sure what their
posterior chains actually looked like
the statues do show that they had an
impressive posterior chain but they also
show other features that weren't as
impressive if you catch my drift which
as a Greek I'm not going to reveal more
information we're still here baby nice
try Matrix not today next exercise
squats and reverse Nordic Earls shout
out to Milo wolf AKA my brother and
lover who is currently next door I'm not
sure if you can hear this if you can
hear this bro go yourself but in
all seriousness Cissy squats and reverse
Nordic curls just your body weight
insane stretch quad isolation blast and
in general a very equipment efficient
way for you to blast your quads even in
the most ghetto of gym setups the
majority of people out there that are
lifters and don't have any severe
Mobility restrictions should be able to
learn how to do them over a couple of
sessions if you're the one guy that
cannot do them and it's impossible for
you to do them then forget it this is an
underrated exercise list not um exercise
you must do or you will die
list last but not least the dumble skull
Crasher now this may be just me not
seeing them as much but I do feel that
when it comes to a tricep isolation
exercise especially when equipment is
limited the dumble skull crusher is an
amazing choice for complete tricep
development versus the Easy Bar skull
crusher that is a bit more awkward and
in some cases you may be limited with
your range of motion depending on the
type of easy bar that you have available
however couple of dumbbells bench or
some sort of a surface plenty of a
stretch and you are literally banging
those triceps out and there you have it
a few exercises that I think are
underrated and are worth trying give
those a go if you haven't and then next
up somebody tells you that you need to
barell squad or just bench first for
your chest or your quads or that the
tricep push down is the best tricep
isolation exercise tell him
hey this man here is talking to us and
that's what I'm going to trust not you
personal trainer who I'm paying
thousands of bucks every year to train
me I listen to real doctor pack goad
subscrib his YouTube channel and thank
you so much for getting your personal
trainer do subscribe to the YouTube
channel please for those of you that
haven't done so get your trainers
friends loved ones family and even your
enemies because you must keep your
enemies Clos and your friends far away
cuz we're grinding out here baby but
don't forget to like subscribe hit the
notification icon and leave a comment
only if you have something positive to
say if you don't just send me your
location and I'll see you outside peace
[Music]