you may consider engaging in some
reduction of non-specialized training
especially for synergist muscle groups
they may actually limit your lats from
becoming as big and strong as possible
so for example if you're doing a ton of
bicep work in your program and a lot of
that transfers to all the forearm
flexors it could be that when you're
doing pull-downs and pull-ups your
biceps and forearm flexors are so tired
from the massive volume you're imposing
on them that you end up failing on
pull-ups because your foreign flexors
fail not because your lats fail that's
not ideal for lats so one thing you want
to do is potentially if you really want
to just throw all the chips at it really
prioritize your upper outer lats what
you want to do is maybe reduce your
bicep volume to some extent reduce your
rear delt volume reduce the amount of
rowing you're doing all the muscles that
work with the lats to pull you want them
to be maybe a little bit on the back
burner not it's not a mandatory thing
but if you really you really want you
have to bring down the rolling volume
bring down the curling volume and then
every workout that you do for your upper
outer lats it's going to be hammering
them like crazy and they're going to be
the limiting factor if that's going to
give you your best thing