good morning everyone welcome to the
vlog figured I just kick it off here it
feels like it's been a minute since I've
actually blogged on the channel I've
been so focused on making informative
content kind of mastering the technique
Tuesday series but anyway I just want to
give you guys a quick update on what
I've been up to it is December 29th if
you can't tell it just literally just
woke up it's 10:00 in the morning my
sleep schedule has been a little bit
weird lately because because we're Sean
and I will usually film the technique
Tuesday videos really late at night so
we just finished filming the pull-up one
which will be out this Tuesday and we
were at the gym until I think it was
like 1:30 or 2:00 in the morning we
usually do that just so the gym is
completely empty and we can basically do
what we want last time I ended up doing
I think it was 30 total sets of pull-ups
just to get enough shots and all the
angles we needed for the videos so my
lats are still super sore from that it
was a crazy workout who's like 30 sets
of 5 I want to give you guys quick
update if you can see out here we got
our first snowfall winter is a little
bit late getting here in Kelowna this
year so we didn't really have much snow
for Christmas but lucky for me I'm
heading back to Florida in like a week
with Stephanie so let me show you guys
real quick what I got for Christmas so
these are probably my favorite gifts
right here these are actually both not
gifts I'm just currently reading those
common these are the books I got for
Christmas my favorite one of the one I'm
starting first is the skeptics guide to
the universe this is by dr. Steven
novella I would say he dr. Steve novella
is the whole reason why I'm interested
in the science of fitness to begin with
his podcast the skeptics guide to the
universe is what this book is based on
and I started listening to that and I
think it was like 2012 and it's just
like mainstream science communication it
really made me so passionate about it so
I heard that they were dropping this
book and Steph went and picked it up for
me so this is like I'm so excited to
read this I can't wait this is this is
gonna kick off the year perfectly for me
and I find it so motivating for wanting
to make good scientific content what
else did I get
I'll show ya Steph got me new pair a
boost to add to the ever-growing shoe
collection over here my parents got me
this weighted blanket so it's like super
heavy when I'm sleeping I love to feel
like I'm suffocating
that link is perfect for that here's my
main gift all the way from Florida
you're back and you're freezing yeah
guys that got in Christmas Eve so we've
been hanging you know good right
Oh Steph's doing the leg day with me
today by the way I won't wear all this
that's your lifting here I'm gonna get
some breakfast and then I will get ready
to go to the gym because the gym is
crazy right now like I guess people
after Christmas just really feel
motivated to train so we try to get out
there a little bit earlier get it done
before the crowds get too ridiculous so
get some breakfast on
this has been my usual breakfast for the
last month or so except I'll usually put
one whole egg in there instead of just
the egg whites nothing - nothing too
crazy and then I'll have these two
supplements in the morning so my
multivitamin which I just take us kind
of a nutritional insurance it's really
common for people at north to have like
vitamin D deficiencies and then there's
a bunch of research in athletes showing
them to be deficient in several vitamins
and minerals so even though the health
benefits of a multivitamin may not be
fleshed out in the literature I still
think it's worthwhile to take one if you
can given that it's cheap and there
doesn't seem to be any downside to it so
still take that and then omega-3 fish
oil I did a video with Ben carpenter
talking about some of the benefits on
these so that's my morning
supplementation and we're gonna eat this
breakfast also I forgot to say this
earlier when I was talking about my
Christmas gifts but my New Year's
resolution in 2019 is to read 50 books
so almost one a week and I'm telling
that to you guys because I want to be
held accountable that so I'd say at the
end of the year what I might do is do
like a top 10 book review or something
like that and if you have any
suggestions or recommendations for books
let me know in the comments below and
I'll go through and look at some of them
that are like highly uploaded and I'll
definitely add it to my list because I'm
always looking for new things to read
today basically I'm starting block two
of my push-pull legs program I'm so know
many of you are running that program but
I feel like the discussion and me taking
you through the workout will apply
whether or not you're running the
program but basically the first eight
weeks of this program I'm gonna pull it
up here I just have it in my PI books up
here so push-pull legs so yeah
block two week one and block one of this
program which I feel like is a good idea
in general to split your program up into
phases or blocks with a specific focus
so block one was really focused on
technique and that applies whether
you're a beginner or you're more
advanced because I feel like a lot of
people don't give technique the
attention it deserves
hence the entire series that I'm making
and also the second goal of that program
was volume accumulation and building up
a big work capacity so it was a pretty
high volume program especially for the
lower body like I had a lot of people
message me being like bro that day one
is
it is tough either they're challenging
sessions however the idea is to leave a
little bit in the tank in terms of
effort or intensity because you're
really trying to build up this work
capacity now in block 2 that kind of
changes the volume has actually brought
down quite a bit however the effort is
really increased you're going to be
pushing yourself harder a lot of people
make the mistake of always trying to
increase volume and then always putting
pedal to the metal in terms of how hard
you're pushing yourself and that's a
mistake because that's really going to
set yourself up for injury now I'm
kicking off block 2 of this program with
a deal owed which i think is a good idea
for most people especially if you're
combining powerlifting style strength
training with hypertrophy training if
you're purely only hypertrophy training
and not doing you know heavy squats
deadlifts bench presses etc then you may
not actually need a D load because
you're supposed to be leaving some
amount of reps in the tank anyway and
really only going to muscular failure so
to the point where you can't do more
reps with perfect technique so you may
not necessarily need a d load as a pure
bodybuilder that's a little bit
controversial but I think that pure
bodybuilding should involve some
strength training anyway so D loadings
probably a good idea
I think D loading serves two main
purposes the one the first is for
recovery so you're gonna allow your soft
tissues and the muscles themselves to
kind of recover D low that's the whole
point of it and then also it can in a
sense resent ties you to a new training
stimulus through either increasing your
motivation so after the D load you're
like okay I'm ready to go in and crush
it again because you really do have to
pull back in into load a lot of people
will run a D load and still train just
as hard and they just reduce their
volume so yeah it can re sensitize you
to a new training stimulus and make you
feel more motivated now in terms of how
I set my D load up it's quite simple as
a general rule you want to reduce both
the volume and intensity as I said many
people will only reduce volume so
they'll do less sets but they'll still
push themselves just as hard or they'll
do exactly the same amount of volume but
push themselves less hard but you want
to strip both back so I'll reduce my
volume by about 50% to 75% of what would
be normal and I'll reduce in 10
City by around two our PE units so I
would normally go to an our PE of nine
leaving one rep in the tank now I would
go to an RPG of six or seven and you
really want to hold yourself accountable
to that just in terms of general
periodization I'm gonna do another video
like a full science explained video on
periodization but for right now what I
want to do is point you guys toward this
paper by John Kiley alright I'll put it
in the description box for you guys but
let's see periodization paradigms in the
21st century this was actually published
in 2012 by John Kiley this is probably
my favorite periodization paper of all
time even though it's like six years old
now and I'm just gonna read off my
favorite line from this year and briefly
explain it so managing training
variation he explains these two concepts
here so he says training variation is a
critical component of long-term planning
but if adaptive energy is too widely
distributed gains may be excessively
diluted I like that he actually uses
gains there somebody's basically saying
here is you don't want to make either of
two very common programming mistakes the
first is to just never switch anything
up you're just always doing the same
program progressively overloading you
will make progress especially as a
beginner that way but there will come a
point when it's just so monotonous the
other mistake would be to excessively
switch things up to the point that you
totally lose progression so basically
you need to vary your training but you
need to do it periodically you don't
want to just always be varying it and
that's the problem with the whole
prototypical muscle confusion concept
which is basically every workout you're
going in and doing something totally
different this isn't the smartest way to
program because it makes progression so
much more unlikely to actually happen
because let's just say you're going in a
week one you do a pull-up we do B two
you do a Hammer Strength pulldown week
three you do a pullover week four you're
back to your pull-up again unless you're
really methodical about tracking your
progress which most people who do muscle
confusion don't chances are when you
come back to the pull-up you won't
remember what you did you won't remember
how many reps you did and your chances
of overloading are so much smaller it'd
be better to stick to one movement and
progressively get better at it for let's
say a four
we period then after that is done now
you can switch things up and that's what
he means by saying training variation is
a critical component of long-term
planning but if adaptive energy is too
widely distributed gains may be
excessively diluted so anyway my general
thoughts on D loading and a little bit
on periodization there follow that up in
a later video I'm gonna sip on my
pre-workout and then I'll check in with
you guys over at the gym
I love Dragic oh no I hate yeah no no no
no no no you don't have snow tires on
[Music]
hey what's up man we just got here to
the gym this is fine we need the his
yeah we're gonna straight over here and
get into workout my lats are still so
sore from all those pull-up
from the pull ups you have from the I
bet you I feel that deadlift
[Music]
that's a good stretch he doing open up
week 1 block 2 and today we've got
starting off with deadlifts 4 sets of 3
with 75% of my 1 rep max so that should
be pretty easy I'm really gonna focus on
honing in on my technique here so I'm
putting in for 15 is my max so comes out
to be 3:11 I'm gonna round that up to
3:15 and I'm still being conservative
with my deadlift 1 oranges my lower back
I can tell isn't a hundred percent and I
don't want to push it to the point that
it starts to feel worse so I'm gonna be
conservative especially during D load
week just really hone in on my technique
that's another important thing I didn't
mention earlier about D loading is that
as you near the end of a training block
and the sets are getting really hard
your technique inevitably will change a
little bit so the D load week allows you
to kind of reset your technique get
everything back under control and then
move forward again with loading creases
from there for deadlifts normally I'll
lift in a flat shoe I can but no deal
but lately for whatever reason I've just
been throwing on my my power love shoes
and they do have a slight heel here
and I'm justifying that more comfortable
lately for whatever reason we've also
been thrown on my knees for deadlifts
this is something I normally recommend
but I did this like three or four years
ago for one phase of training and I
really liked it so I'm doing it again
now but yeah these years are I think the
fifth prototype of the rise knee sleeves
that we're working on so these are the
original ones if you bought them these
are the ones you have now and the issue
that I was having with these is they
didn't have quite enough coverage so
they went quite long enough so what
we've done is made them longer and also
the material is tighter so it's a little
bit more resilient the issue with these
though that I'm finding and I'm gonna
you know give this feedback to Rhys is
that I want this to be higher here so
you have them wear any coverage on the
back and then there'll be 100%
okay I'm next we've got tempo back
squats just two sets six reps 60% one
rep max the idea here an actual
two-second lowering place so you're
going to take your breath in one two
maybe half a second pause in the hole
and then you're gonna accelerate up
normal speed so we're doing that for six
reps and I'm gonna get into these and
I'll catch up with you guys after and
kind of take you through the rest of the
workout and I'll just put the clips over
the the talking bits here we go all
right guys just got back from the gym
man that was a crazy crazy workout I'm
really excited to be training with Steph
again because she just ran a super glute
focused program for the last few months
and now she's wanting to train her upper
body again more so we're gonna be
trained together more on the channel so
you can look forward to that anyway I'm
gonna take you guys through the rest of
this workout so after deadlifts we did
those tempo back squats basically the
point there is to really reinforce
proper technique and make the movement
challenging with lighter loads so you'll
remember I said in the gym that no
matter what for the most part and
research shows this your form will start
to change as the weight gets heavier and
heavier so toward the end of a block
chances are your form has broken down a
little bit so by introducing these back
in now it basically reinforces what
should be good lifting habits from the
beginning so if let's say you've notice
that your hips would shoot up a little
bit out at the bottom of the squat or
maybe your knees would cave in a little
bit going slow on the negative I think
is the single best way to reinforce
proper lifting habits so keep that in
mind and that applies with any lift and
then also the research on slow eccentric
doesn't really show a benefit when it
comes to hypertrophy and I feel like a
lot of people take that to me and go
slow eccentrics are useless but I think
what it actually shows is that you can
get the same hypertrophy with lighter
loads if you use slow eccentric from my
view that that's a perfect case for
doing them so that's the reason we're
including those after that we moved on
to round back dumbbell 45 degree
hyperextension I actually held a plate
just because it was closer to me and I
just held a 25 pound plate there and
what you want to do here is allow your
upper back to round
and you want to think about squeezing
your butt cheeks together to lift your
body oh you can really really turn this
from a lower back exercise into a glute
exercise by focusing on your glutes this
is something I talked about with Brett
Contreras on my podcast
now but you really want to drive your
hips into the pad of the machine as if
you were doing a hip thrust and you
don't necessarily want to extend all the
way up I like to cut the range of motion
just slightly short and that allows me
to really feel my glutes and honestly I
think I feel my glutes on those more
than I would even a hip thrust so I'm
really excited to be doing those through
it the rest of this block after that we
moved on to a smith machine reverse
lunge two sets of 15 each leg which was
pretty brutal I have to say that was
probably the toughest part of the
workout and with these basically you
just want to start with your weaker leg
and then match the reps with your
stronger like for me I did do fifteen
reps on the first set but I found that
to be pretty challenging definitely more
than an rp7 because this is a new
movement and cardiovascularly it's
challenging because you've got like 30
total reps to do and single leg stuff is
just tough to begin with so I stripped
it back to I think 10 reps each leg for
the second set just to keep true to that
RPE after that we did enhanced eccentric
lying leg curls so basically Steph push
down on the leg curl pad during the
negative portion only and I love doing
these enhanced e Centrex for these
isolation movements because you are so
much stronger on the eccentric so to
take advantage of that you can just have
a partner push down and you'll kind of
match out the strength curve the natural
strength part of those movements a
little bit better so that's a really
nice intensity technique that I'm going
to be using this block and then we did
the exact same thing with the leg
extension with the leg extension you
don't want to apply too much force from
your partner I mean on those because it
might give you a little bit of knee pain
I've never felt that myself but just be
cautious and you know don't overdo it
with the loading on the negative there
and we finished off with a little bit of
glute medius and hip abduction work
which can really help train and
strengthen that glute medius in a unique
way which is useful not only for growing
the glutes generally but in terms of
preventing knee valgus on the squat I
think it does
keep the knees out which is good and
it's good to have you know to train the
glutes in multiple planes of motion so
laterally vertically horizontally etc so
yeah and we skipped calves because I
always do that but yeah just keeping it
real and that was the workout so if you
guys do want to run this push-pull legs
program with me you can check it out
I'll put a link to it over here next to
my head that's going to be a wrap for
this video I'm gonna have another vlog
probably by the time I vlog the next one
it might be a push or a pull workout so
stay tuned for that and I'll see you
guys all here in the next video