if you're currently only having one or
two meals or protein feedings per day
you're probably missing out on some
muscle growth and here's how to fix that
we're back local whey protein dealer and
soon to be doctor Milo wolf hair with
wolf coaching and today we're talking
about protein intake and specifically
how many feedings of protein should you
have across the day in order to maximize
getting yaked you feel me let me take
you back in history a little bit bit of
a history lesson for y'all
foreign
there was this prevailing Trend within
the bodybuilding culture that you needed
to have six to eight meals per day six
to eight protein feedings per day like
every two hours seemingly in order to
maximize the muscle protein synthesis
response aka the muscle growth response
since then there's kind of been a
pendulum swing and a counterculture the
people really into intermittent fasting
have gone the other way and said
actually really all that matters is how
much protein you get in total per day
and so you could have all your protein
in one meal and that's still optimal
because you're hitting your total daily
protein goal well as it turns out there
is some truth to both takes by and large
total daily protein intake is more
important than frequency of protein
intake and the exact distribution across
a day however your body can only direct
so much protein within each meal towards
muscle building purposes so if you have
all your protein in one meal you may not
see the same muscle building benefits as
if you spread it out a bit more more
across the day how many feedings of
protein should you be aiming for across
a day this is where a somewhat older
review paper by schoenfelden Aragon from
2018 comes in I know compared to most of
the studies I review this is actually
quite old this is five years old while
there's some disagreement between
studies especially acute studies and
mechanistic studies looking more so at
muscle protein synthesis and
longitudinal studies or long-term
studies looking at lean body mass or
fat-free Mass here are some of the
findings from this review paper
throughout this video when I give
recommendations as far as how many grams
of protein to have keep in mind that
those numbers are for relatively high
quality protein by and large high
quality protein just refers to having a
decent balance of amino acids overall of
the eight essential amino acids having a
sufficient amount of leucine one of the
key amino acids if not the key amino
acid and finally being relatively
digestible first off you likely maximize
your muscle protein synthesis response
in other words your muscles risk
response in terms of muscle growth to
the protein you just consumed at about
40 grams per feeding some studies
suggest that you can get about 80
percent of that maximal muscle protein
synthesis from about 20 grams of protein
but if you get all of it or optimize it
you might need around 40 grams
interestingly the 540 grams of protein
led to Greater MPS than 20 grams was
found in the context of consuming
protein after a full body workout this
has led to the hypothesis that the
better your conditions for muscle growth
for example if you're running a really
effective training program or maybe if
you're newer to lifting you can benefit
from higher protein intakes so how much
protein is optimal for you may somewhat
depend on what kind of session you just
had how much overall muscle you trained
how effective that session was and more
as far as how much protein to have per
meal exactly a recent review paper by
Morton and colleagues suggested about
0.4 grams per kilogram per meal is a
really good starting point essentially
what they did here is they took the
average needed to maximize the muscle
protein synthesis and they added two
standard deviations to that number and
so for about 95 of people and cases this
should be an optimal protein intake per
meal importantly as you might have
guessed from me giving recommendations
in grams per kilogram the optimal of
protein both per day and per meal is
likely body weight dependent so for
heavier people you'll need more protein
per meal and overall per day for lighter
people you'll need less another Finding
was that some studies and non-training
people people not lifting weights having
just one meal a day had 80 of your total
protein for me for example that would be
about 130 or something of my overall
protein intake for the day come from one
meal didn't actually negatively impact
muscle mass compared to having your
protein more spread out however this was
on people who didn't lift consistently
how well this generalizes to us freaks
the people hoisting is a bit unclear and
so you don't want to take that and run
with it necessarily the next finding in
a meta regression by Morton and
colleagues was that about 1.6 grams per
kilogram per day so for someone weighing
100 kilograms that would be 160 grams of
protein per day seems to optimize gains
in fat-free mass in a resistance
training population the people hoisting
the waste us that being said while the
metal regression revealed that on
average 1.6 grams per kilogram of body
weight was sufficient to optimize
hypertrophy the 95 confidence interval
did range from about 1.03 to about 2.2
grams per kilogram per day and so if you
really want to cover your bases you
could go higher than this so with all
that in mind let me give you some
recommendations based on the most
up-to-date studies on protein having
three to five meals per day each
containing a decent amount of protein is
a good place to store it if you wanted
to you could have four meals a day each
having about 0.4 grams per kilogram of
protein per meal this would get you two
things one it would get you a sufficient
and optimal daily protein intake and two
it would get you enough protein per
feeding in order to get some of those
potentially smaller benefits that we see
and some of the acute and mechanistic
data on muscle protein synthesis that's
the video a lot of protein science
if you like the video please comment
like subscribe alternatively if you want
to see anything else leave a comment
down below letting me know what you want
to see I will see you guys my favorite
people on the whole planet
besides my cat but she's not really a
person in that next one peace
[ __ ] love protein protein is the best
protein protein protein protein protein
insert the kai muscle uh video of him at
the beach having some protein with the
Bros
you feel me