scientific hypertrophy training are your
children safe tonight news at 11
hey folks dr. Mike is racquel here for
Renaissance period ization let's talk
about technique fundamentals for
hypertrophy training specifically so it
turns out there are probably eight as I
count it a little bit arbitrary a little
bit not fundamentals for technique and
if you follow them you're gonna have
good technique on any exercise that you
do so they apply to every single
exercise eight of them let's take each
of them one by one and see how they sort
of help you along with the training
process here's the deal at the end of
the day any good technique any technique
is pronounced good from a hypertrophy
training perspective has to suit at
least four purposes first of all it has
to stimulate the target muscle okay
duh here's a great technique on bicep
curls but you're not even stimulating
biceps I don't even know how great
technique means at that point secondly
they have to have the least fatigue
generated for the stimulus that doesn't
mean zero fatigue but if you have a
technique that hits your biceps a little
bit but crushes your elbows that's not a
good thing so join in connective tissue
stress has to be minimized a relative to
how much stimulus there is and the
systemic fatigue should be again
minimized relative to the stimulus so if
it takes you heaven and earth do some
kind of bicep curl variation it zaps
your strength for everything else
completely it's just emotionally super
super tough but I get barely trained
your biceps that's not great but if a
technique it hits your biceps a ton then
at the same time doesn't tax your rest
of your system a ton you're off to a
pretty good start the least fatigue per
stimulus should also be generated which
means that joint and connective tissue
stress should be minimized relative to
the stimulus so for example if a bicep
curls smashes your bicep is it okay that
if it you know irritates your elbow is
just a little bit and nothing too severe
yeah fine it's worth it but if something
barely hits your biceps at all it just
crushes your elbows that's not good same
idea for systemic fatigue if something
takes heaven and earth as far as
motivation to actually do but it doesn't
stimulate the target muscle a lot that's
not a great thing so you want to make
sure the trade-off
they're number three should be safer
than what's needlessly risky if you have
a technique and someone in 30 seconds of
thought could be like you know if you
did it this other way you wouldn't be a
severe risk of just ripping your quad
off the bone maybe that's a better
technique than the one you were doing
lastly good technique is stable
technique it should be very similar
technique time over time over time
because it can guarantee that you're
giving a certain amount of stimulus that
you know what stimulus is one rep of
pull-up should be the same Raptor up
correct because you know six reps is
meaningfully bigger always then four
reps and that I'll let you track
performance if you say okay I squatted
315 for a set of ten last month I squat
on 295 for a set of ten did I get
stronger well if your squad is always
the same to the same depth same position
etc then you know you got stronger but
if it's a different depth different
position you can't really be sure if you
actually made progress so those are the
underlying factors that lead the best
technique and then the technique
fundamentals come away from those we
count eight of them not gonna list them
all here you can work them at the screen
you can pause the video if you'd like
let's get into each one one by one
describe what it is how to employ it and
why it's super important so number one
full and standardized range of motion
why because for each emotion just
results in more muscle growth for a
variety of reasons mildly outside the
scope in this video tons of other videos
on this tons of other pieces of
literature forage emotion is just better
than partial range of motion almost
every case specifically with regard to
hypertrophy but there are limits to this
if doing more range of motion that
you're doing now makes the exercise
unsafe don't do it for example if
deadlifting to a deficit really rounds
the crap out of your lower back you feel
like it's something's gonna go probably
a little bit too much range of motion
there's always limit to that and if a
large degree of tension is removed from
the target muscle doing an excessive
range of motion it's too much for
example if you're doing dumbbell flyes
if you go super super deep at some point
it's really just your biceps that are
getting trained and not your pecs
anymore they're out of their active
range of motion at that point it's not a
great idea so limit up there but outside
of that forearm is usually bad
in addition to that using the same range
of motion more or less set to set the
set wrap to wrap is a really good idea
because it lets you plan a stimulus okay
if you're doing thirty total reps of an
exercise today next week you're doing 35
you know 35 is gonna be more because
each rep is the same if some of the reps
last week or really full range of motion
some of the reps this week were partial
range of motion the amount of total work
and total muscle stimulus Manhattan
actually be lower this week but it was
last week even though you're doing five
extra reps so stimulus consistency and
also tracking of performance again if
your reps all looked the same you know
that if you do more reps with more
weight so on and so forth you just got
better versus like oh I benched more but
I don't know my reps were sort of like a
little bit partial last time and maybe
this time they're even more full range
that I get stronger you don't want any
part of that for a motion is king super
super essential next controlled
eccentric here's the thing concentric
the isometric and the eccentric each
role muscle has different parts of the
movement probably with slightly
different mechanisms of action so that
getting all of them is a really good
idea now if you had to do only one you
don't but if you had to do only one the
eccentric it's probably the most
hypertrophic out of all three which if
you skip the eccentric you're skipping
the one that meat is its victim the most
of it right if you order a fast food
meal of burger fries and coke just
became the average person here average
preferences it's like getting rid of the
eccentric cuz I throw in the burger away
and someone's like what do you like
fries and coke who the hell is really
that's a meal I think if you get rid of
the fries okay you probably shouldn't
have but at least you got a burger and a
coke if you got you know got rid of the
coke the whole meal is difficult to eat
so you have burger and fries and nothing
to drink right
the eccentric is the burger of that
combo and I color ideally have all three
right but people do the dive-bombing
thing where they curl up really fast and
they come back down a curl up really
fast and come back down and that's not
great even if it doesn't enhance your
injury risk then you're just missing
probably the best part of the movement
so when you do your curls for example
come up at a good speed and then control
the eccentric it doesn't need to be five
seconds but at least one second at least
physically resisting the lowering of the
weight and on the dive-bombing thing
especially with exercises like squat
bench presses pull-ups
the actual die flopping of going down
really fast can enhancing your risk and
it's nothing you need a hypertrophy
training so control both lowers your
risk and makes you more likely to grow a
muscle both awesome fundamental to every
single exercise you can think of next no
brainer no cheating
okay cheating really is using untargeted
muscles to do more way to more reps so
when you cheat on the curl using your
glutes to do more curls how the hell
does that make sense good news I'll
spare you it doesn't make any sense at
all and it causes some problems first
you have to increase the load to do
cheat curls and increasing load causes
more injury there's tons of videos and
bodybuilders pulling the biceps doing
cheat curls have not seen one video of a
bodybuilder pulling their bicep doing
regular curls with no cheating so
there's your thing more load needlessly
by the way because it's not the target
muscle doing it cause more injury risk
if you don't get hurt it's at least more
local joint and connective tissue
fatigue right if you're using a hundred
and thirty five pounds on the curl your
elbows are gonna feel it more than if
you use a hundred pounds with strict
technique without cheating so you're
almost like cheating is a way of loading
your joints to connect and fish is more
for some sort of nebulous benefit and
the benefit we all know it's just ego
you just want to lift more weight but
you sort of make up all these reasons
all the eccentric and all that it's all
bs
next you cause more systemic fatigue
because it's a greater total muscle mass
involvement and more load give the
amount of fatigue to your whole body
thus affecting all the other exercises
you're gonna do later in the day or
later in the week from cheat curling 135
pounds is gonna be bigger than if you
just use your biceps to curl 100 pounds
you're actually causing more systemic
fatigue and that's probably always a bad
thing or in most cases next what about
those muscles that are helping you cheat
with a cheating bicep curl the glutes
for example well we're back the
hamstrings your traps whatever else
you're using to cheat bicep curl that
actually gives them volume and increases
their fatigue and fatigues your glutes
fatigue your traps forties your lower
back so on and so forth but it's at a
level of state of stimulus that is just
not really good enough to promote any
muscle growth with that's actually
called junk volume it's a volume of
training to the muscles get but it
essentially causes almost all fatigue
and almost no growth
that's bad news if you want your glutes
to work it and to get fatigued they
might well be growing doing lunges and
deadlifts and all that other stuff when
you use your glutes for example to do
Chi curls with it just makes them tired
it's like saying man I want really big
forearm
I'm gonna go become an auto mechanic and
do this with wrenches all day like you
know they don't get your forearms bigger
it's gonna cause you 40 hours a week of
work worth of fatigue that's terrible
you can do like sum total of three
minutes of of curling you know various
wrist curls and all of a sudden you've
gained all the forms as you would as a
mechanic instead of spending 40 hours
you spent several minutes right so
definitely cheat stuff is a real bad
deal because it poisons the rest of the
muscles were using when you go in and
you want to train your glutes you want
your glutes fresh not your glutes a
little bit beat up a little bit
underperforming because of the fact that
you used your glutes for bicep curls so
does it make any damn sense
next cheating makes tracking and
comparing essentially impossible how the
hell do you know if your biceps are
getting stronger you don't because you'd
be using your glutes and biceps and who
knows you may be using your biceps less
or your glutes more nobody can tell if
it's trick technique you can tell if not
who knows and a lot of folks you have a
lot of credence to mind muscle
connection and there is some there how
the hell you're supposed to have my
muscle connection if you're busy
cheating and he knowing the weights some
of the same bodybuilder to say look my
muscle connection for one for what
they're doing curls with a super cheat
that's basically mutually exclusive if
you want my muscle connection make sure
everything's strict only use your biceps
and really focus on that that's about it
next specific position Dogma okay any
time you talk about technique
fundamentals a lot of folks come in and
say you did have to do this exercise
exactly this way and if you don't move
your shoulder like this you're gonna die
all kinds of bad things are gonna happen
here's the thing
general positions are very easy to
describe and they best stimulate target
muscle through any kind of movement but
there's tons of individual variation for
example where to put your grips or
pull-ups best like this or are they best
like this well both of them are probably
good and it really just depends on the
individual and sometimes they're both
good so you can do one for a while and
do another for a while how to flare your
elbows and knees where to put your feet
and stuff on a hack squat how to
position your toes there's tons of
variation here a lot of it all the
exercises work well it's just options
like
a ton of questions on my social media
like is it better to do rows with an
overhand grip like this or is it better
to overhand groove like that or
underhand if that's like asking it
what's better you know brown rice
oatmeal or pasta like well gee there's
just three different carb sources that
are both fine and when you get bored of
one you go to the other same idea right
in the end nobody can tell you like look
the reason you're not getting dealt
Feltman is cause your elbow is not just
like basically put like this you got to
do that at the end SFR has to rule the
day stimulus to fatigue ratio if you're
getting your great stimulus using a
technique following the fundamentals and
if a fatigue is low you're good to go
don't worry about super specific
positions there's just really there's
nothing there's no treasure under that
rock so don't worry about the super
exactitude next technical absolutism and
making sure to avoid it so here's the
thing people will say you do bicep curl
and when you're doing the curl when the
weight juts out in front of you you tend
to lean back and people say aren't you
not supposed to lean back on the curl
well here's the thing
weights change your center of gravity so
if you have a hundred pounds on a
barbell out here and you a 200 pounds
then all of a sudden the center of
gravity moves forward into your body
possibly weight to outside of your body
if you didn't lean back you would
physically fall forward and that would
be it you have to lean back so in
real-world training the lifter is not
the only part of the system the weights
play an effect to some leaning has to
occur adjusting for the weights people
say you know aren't you supposed to just
squat up and down that's physically
impossible to do you will fall everyone
has to lean somewhat some people with
long femurs a short torsos have to lean
a lot and there's nothing wrong with
that another one people think your body
is just a simple diagram with like two
joints in it and thus everything is
super simplified there's other muscles
there's other joints that have to be
involved for example people say the row
that's very lats right the row is not
just for your lats it's for your middle
traps it's for your Rambla just for your
teres major and it's okay to let your
scapulae sink and then retract them
because that's part of the rowing motion
people will say like you should keep
your SCAP stable when your rowing who
the hell made that up that's an insane
technical absolutism that borders on
religion
would you keep that stable when you can
move it and get muscle growth from it
your body's a little bit more complex
than just like one joint in one muscle
at a time
lastly a lot of the folks that put a lot
of stock into this overthink the crap
out of their technique and while they're
busy overthinking if they're under
trying once you have a good basic
techniques that emotion you gotta train
hard to get close to failure if you're
so busy worrying about it my elbows 90
degrees okay 90 degrees oh that was 89
degrees that's no good if you think and
that kind of stuff you're usually
missing out on those many hard reps or a
few hard reps before failure and you're
probably not getting the greatest
results so worry more about training
hard with a good technique and less
about insane absolutism right you as the
fundamentals don't cheat and then let
the body adjust to the movement
naturally while pushing the target
muscle hard don't overthink the stuff
because overthinking comes with a price
of under try number six you don't want
to let non-target to limit you what does
that mean well the best training
stimulus is when the target muscle is
limiting fact you don't want the
following other things to be limiting
factors and exercise which means you
stop before the target muscle is really
close to failure because of other
muscles okay if you're doing Close Grip
benches in a certain technique and your
triceps feel 100 percent fine but your
pecs are giving out G you know you're
really that's not that's a PEC exercise
now it's not a tricep exercise your
technique isn't wrong but for the
triceps it is wrong so you have to
rework it grip ok I'm lat pull-downs
if your grip is limiting you you could
be 10 reps in reserve when you think
you're zero that's no good each set is
not very effective do something about
your grip what about your wrists you can
wear wrist straps on an incline barbell
press and get 5 more reps or use 10 more
pounds if you don't you get neither one
of those are you really pushing your
pecs and shoulders and triceps as hard
as you thought you were or are your
wrists limiting you what about core if
you're using a weightlifting belt for
example you may be able to get 5 more
reps or use 20 more pounds on the squat
that's stimulus your quads get right
that your core is previously preventing
you from getting that's not a good thing
you don't go to do squats to train your
core how many bodybuilders on stage like
yep gotta train squats because I want
the big midsection nobody says that they
want it for the quads a make sure your
quality factor if the core is a limiting
factor make sure you solve that by
pretension
wearing a belt or something like that
lastly feet and ankles
some people say man you know like I
can't leg press as steep as I'd like
because my heels come up okay and they
try a weightlifting shoe and it's heeled
shoe and it's like oh my god this feels
beautiful then they say something
pletely insane like well I don't want to
use it as a crutch
what crutch what are you talking about
bodybuilding is a crutch you're supposed
to be getting strong just from nature
but you need to go to the gym you was
right there's no such thing as crutches
you there's technologies and tools used
to become better and more muscular folks
use them all and don't let non targets
limit your performance when you are
going close to failure and exercise that
had better be that target muscle or
muscles that are what stopped you
right when you've got your versa grips
you're rowing you've got a belt on
potentially everything's cord out you're
really strong and you can't barely touch
the bar anymore because of the pulling
muscles of your back they're the ones
that are getting the most benefit but if
your core is limiting factor or the bar
slips out of your hands you can forget
about back training being optimized next
number seven of all of the points that
we just mentioned one through six if you
apply all of them you get a certain
universe of techniques a sample all of
which you're going to be really good
what you want to do is pick the
techniques in there that are the least
fatiguing specifically to your joints
and connective tissues for example if
you check all of those boxes one through
six you can get three different squat
stances and then once you have there
three different squat stances you can be
like okay or one of these my hips don't
feel that great one of these my knees
don't feel that great but this one in
the middle it feels the best for sure on
both hips and knees that's the one you
want to use right because there can be
more than a few movements patterns that
give you a really good stimulus you just
have to find the ones in there and it
could still be multiple the treat your
joints the Basten bonus point is if you
also choose the technique that doesn't
require you to have as high of a rating
of perceived exertion that you might
have your deficit push-ups with this
grip might really blast your chest
everything feels great on the joints but
if you do this grip you could stretch a
little bit better and actually
just it feels like a more natural
pushing position so you don't even try
that hard your pecs get a great pump
awesome better than having to try super
hard and then and then end up having the
same amount of stimulus it's a more
systemic fatigue more spillover it
affects other muscles and so on and so
forth
lastly this is an exactly technique tip
but it has to be mentioned is going too
heavy or too light why well some
exercises are very difficult to do
stimulative lee if the load is
mish-mashed for example if you try to do
some isolations with very low reps you
can't even do the right kind of
technique while maintaining anything
like the focus on the muscle that is
being trained side laterals try doing
side delt laterals for sets of six it's
kind of insane actually just hurts your
connective tissues and barely trains
your muscle push downs wrist curls calf
raises these are not exercises they're
tailor-made to be trained very heavy
it's just not something that's very
conducive on the other hand if you train
stiff legged deadlifts Metro squad
standing presses were very high rep sets
of twenty five your core and your
structural elements and your cardio is
gonna give out way before the target
muscle and then you're not really
training the target muscle yet again so
what you need to do is raise and lower
the load to fit the exercise better and
good news there's tons of exercises that
you can use that are all over the load
spectrum for any given muscle for
example somebody could say man you know
hamstrings I'm doing stuff like a
deadlifts any time I'd go over like 10
or 12 reps I just feel it in my back and
I feel it in my cardio it's not hams
anymore as a limiting factor does that
mean I just don't Train hams in the 12
to 30 rep range nonsense you go to
seated leg curls and all of a sudden
sets of 25 feel great or if you just do
seated leg curls you do sets of seven or
eight you're like dude I feel like my
knees are gonna pop off weird I don't
need a pump this sucks and then you say
oh I just train my hamstrings line all
the time no way you do stiff legged
deadlifts or good mornings and all of a
sudden sets of eight feel amazing so the
good news is there's tons of exercises
there to make sure to cover that entire
loading range just don't pick exercises
that don't correspond well to they're
loading range all right what are the
implications as well first of all
if you know the eight factors of a good
technique you can make sure you're
always using them and always have really
a really good technique awesome
if you don't know the specific technique
on an exercise let's see you see an
exercise on a video you say oh I'd like
to try that if you just apply the 8
factors you get huge head start then to
how to do the exercise right now
good coaches I can still in Formula who
actually that looks good fundamentally
but you want to move your elbows into
the bar rather than away from the bar as
you press like ah that changes it now I
feel it in my triceps so on and so forth
but knowing those eight is a big head
start at organizing your techniques you
could be much much ahead of the game
first you should be like I don't know
how to do this movement and lastly if
you see someone else perhaps someone you
look up to someone you take wisdom from
a high level bodybuilder or something
if you see someone violating one of the
eight factors are more than these eight
fundamentals maybe a few at a time
or you're being coached to do so there
had better be some damn good reasons for
that because most of these you just
never violate every now and again you
can get fudge you with some of them but
only for very good reasons right in our
techniques series that we've been doing
and you can check our playlist for the
technique series we cover a ton of
technique specifics for a bunch of
different exercises but as you watch or
re-watch the technique series you can
see that almost all of them these eight
fundamentals are mentioned so if there's
ever an exercise we don't get to or
haven't gotten to yet on that series
check this video out go over the eight
guidelines and you're going to be
inventing a technique or perfecting it
for the exercise you want that's already
gonna be super awesome folks thank you
for tuning in we'll see you next time