too busy to train here's a quick
30-minute leg Daya you can fit even into
your busiest days this workout uses
scientific techniques like Drop sets and
antagonized paired super sets to save
time and still grow muscle first do two
to three warm up sets on the Smith
machine good morning then perform three
sets of 5 to 10 repetitions on the Smith
machine good morning following this do a
quick warm up set or two on the leg
press to get your knees and quads warmed
up from there we'll jump straight into a
drop set on the leg press doing one
activation set for 10 to 20 reps
followed immediately by 3 20% load drops
following this do a quick one set on the
reverse NY curl and the seated light
curl we'll be super setting these two
exercises for two sets each and 10 to 20
reps on each exercise finally we'll be
wrapping up the session with the last
muscle group that you haven't trained
yet the calves do a quick warm up set on
the leg press calf raise straight into a
drop set once again aim for 5 to 10 reps
on your activation set followed
immediately by three drop sets dropping
the load by 20% for each set give this
session a try and let me know what you
think