what we're trying to shield from our
other dangers that are slowly and
insidiously killing us start by turning
off the Wi-Fi at night why believe it or
not the incentive structure around
companies that build Wi-Fi architecture
for them to make sure it's not bad for
you is so fing insane so high stakes
that they did their due diligence so we
use like a fair material over a router
okay this is officially 10f foil hat
 you bring faay material with
you toing cancel out radio waves you
can't unplug the router and turn it off
or do the Hotel staff think that's
weird I mean I guess if you really want
the Wi-Fi to stay the away from you you
just sleep in a fairday cage the whole
time which if he was in a fairy cage all
the time that would be dope and also
does he know that the cameras he's being
filmed on are emitting all sorts of
electromagnetic radiation also does he
know that the sun is a thermonuclear
bomb gives you a bunch of stuff like
skin cancer I don't think he's actually
read from a sunburn that's just the
abuse of trend balone acetate that's
what we in the industry call a trend tan