[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today we are making I
am so excited we're gonna make chocolate
donuts this is not in any of my
cookbooks this is a recipe that I did
just for you guys just for the cooking
show alright so let's get started
I'm gonna mix up a tablespoon of egg
substitute with two tablespoons of water
you guys know I use egg substitute a lot
cuz I currently cannot have eggs if you
could have eggs just use a whole egg I'm
gonna use this and with the egg
substitute just keep stirring it with a
fork I don't like a spoon for this cuz
it's chunky and it'll leave chunks if
you just keep stirring it with a fork
you'll work out all those chunks it'll
be nice and smooth that's what you want
and then just set it off to the side it
just needs to sit for a minute thicken
up a little bit by the time you get to
that point of needing it it's gonna be
ready to go so I'm gonna mix that up and
then I'm gonna start with our dry
ingredients so I've got spelt flour here
you could use like a whole grain pastry
flour if you wanted to
I like spelt flour I feel like whole
grain pastry flour is great in certain
recipes but it has a really flowery
taste in a baked product to me sometimes
I like the spelt flour because to me I
you know at this point I almost can't
even tell the difference I'm kind of so
used to it I don't think it has a strong
differentiating flavor so I like that
then I'm gonna add in some dates sugar
baking powder baking soda and a little
pinch of salt and then a 100% optional
ingredients that I like to use is a this
flex flavors packet so this is like a
you know calorie free flavoring and
we've done some things with flex flavors
before I've baked with them before they
I did use some of their stuff in my
first cookbook
Brenda's aunts kitchen back in the
so I really like adding these in but
it's not 100% necessary it's just
another sweet addition and this
particular flavor is creme brulee then
I'm going to mix up our wet ingredients
next so I've got chocolate almond milk
unsweetened applesauce unsweetened
applesauce again for some natural
sweetness some vanilla and some liquid
like liquefied coconut oil give that a
good stir add in our egg substitute
because it's ready now it's nice and
thick so it's gonna mimic an egg stir it
up really good grab a bowl dump your dry
ingredients in make a well in the center
let's pour our liquid right into that
hole and then just kind of fold it in
it's gonna have chunks it's gonna be
really thick and that's fine it all
works itself out in the oven so you
don't have to worry about that
just kind of fold go underneath and fold
up underneath and fold up I'm gonna grab
my donut pan here you can get these
everywhere you can get the silicone ones
I like a heavier duty one for these
here's what the silicone it is kind of
hearts very floppy it's kind of hard to
get them in and out of the oven so I
like a solid pan for this reason why it
really well
[Music]
grab a freezer bag we're gonna put the
dough into our freezer bag
[Applause]
and then see down here there's a little
bit of a gap don't squeeze it all the
way to the end yet go ahead and take a
pair of scissors and just cut off that
end it's okay if it's pretty big
remember the batter is really thick it's
not gonna get away from you it's not
gonna run out you're in control
we're just gonna pipe our doughnuts in
piped our doughnuts in there we're gonna
pop these into a 350 oven for 10 minutes
and then we get to do all the fun stuff
so we're gonna take these out you want
to let them just hang out in the pan for
a little bit you can stick a toothpick
down in to make sure that it's done on
the inside but 10 minutes is about right
you can kind of tell by pressing on them
if you want like a little bit more of a
dark top you can leave them in for a few
minutes more but I think we're good so
now we're going to make up the the glade
sort of like a glaze for the top that's
gonna help you stick all of your
favorite toppings to it I've just got
date syrup which is a natural sweetener
just made of dates and then this is just
a peanut powder so you can use peanut
powder there's now chocolate peanut
powder out there and this is just hot
water so what we're gonna do is give
this a really good stir and we're gonna
add hot water as needed just to get this
to the right pouring consistency as you
can tell it's kind of thickening up so
I'm gonna add a little bit of hot water
get that nice and thinned out so you can
put obviously any topping that you
really like on here I've got some
non-dairy chips you could use regular
chips you could use carob chips you
could use the nibs I've got some chopped
nuts here any kind cashews peanuts
walnuts pecans anything these are
actually the nibs that I was talking
about some raw coconut flakes so this is
not sweetened this isn't the sugary type
of coconut flake there's some more
peanut butter powder or peanut powder
here if you want that really really
peanutty taste and then of course some
sugary cereal really just an endless
amount of topping options so this was
just a little bit of a variety I'm gonna
take this sauce go right over the top
run down the side Nessie doughnuts
totally cool
there we go I mean how amazing are those
if you put those out you had friends
over you set these babies out there's no
way anybody would believe that these are
even remotely diet friendly these are
totally our PE diet friendly you can fit
these into your templates and it's just
a really special treat for yourself
[Music]