hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
today's question is a weird one
should you buy rp's new muscle focus
program that's out well i wrote it with
jared feather and james hoffman and a
couple other folks at rp and what a
weird video to make that i'm wondering
whether or not you should buy it well
actually you know typically the answer
for most folks would be of course buy it
one big bonus for buying it is i get to
buy more lamborghinis which of course i
show off to you as usual
however i'm going to cut you the real
deal as usual and we'll do like uh plus
sides and and uh minus sides and see if
you actually should be buying this or
not because it's not for everyone
believe it or not so
real talk we'll just straight go to the
nose first
why wouldn't you buy our new program
well
it's a specialization program
that you buy it it's like 50 bucks right
now it's on sale
and it gives you a whole body program
five days a week and you get to pick
when you buy which muscle group singular
you actually target
during that time it's a six week
mesocycle you can do them over a bunch
if you'd like but essentially it's like
okay i really want to bring up my biceps
and here's the program that's going to
really really help me do it biceps chest
back width back back thickness we have
like nine different programs for all the
parts of the body except
calves you could ask why we didn't make
a calf one nobody really cares about
calves i know it's crazy splash me
please lifting gods don't strike me down
right now um but the calf program look
if you guys really want one comment uh
below and we'll make you a calf program
but just go do a lot of calves five sets
of calves it's not even an exercise all
right so
what are the reasons you shouldn't be
buying this thing well you might be a
beginner and you probably have no need
to specialize
so you really like if you bought this it
would be like oh like bring up your
biceps and you're like wait a minute
what about the rest of my body and just
a fine job training the rest of your
body mostly at maintenance or very slow
gains but you could do better than that
so if you don't need to specialize and
you're a beginner you can give our
simple training templates a shot all
these links by the way of all the
products i'm going to try to pimp on you
are going to be right here in the
description below so feel free to click
on any of them because lambo doesn't pay
for itself uh simple training templates
are cheap they're super effective if
you're a beginner you don't want to
overthink the stuff they're a really
good thing to go on
if you don't want to pay money no big
deal we got you covered uh we have a ton
of lecture series on how to write your
first beginner program which are
completely free and they're on youtube
and we also have them in the description
so feel free to click on that
also don't buy this program if you're
intermediate but you're not really
interested in specialization like a lot
of intermediates most of them actually
should be training with a generalized
program that trains all the muscles
roughly evenly so on and so forth if you
really want a guided really good auto
regulated program to do that you still
want to buy stuff our male physique
templates our female physique templates
are absolutely available they train your
entire body and have some options for
specialization not very specific but
like they have like a chest and back one
shoulders and arms one a legs one and
then a general overall one just get the
general overall on and you're good to go
if you really want a program
if you're an intermediate and you don't
have any spare cash you don't feel like
paying for stuff no worries we got you
covered as well we have free program
design guides just click right there in
the description and takes you all of
them it's literally a play-by-play of
how to design programs for each one of
your muscles including your whole body
gee whizzy each one's like 15 pages 100
free no like hey give us your email some
stupid crap like that just take them and
do your best there's even some sample
programs in each one of those things you
can try those out we have hypertrophy
made simple videos you're not big on
reading like my third grade teacher told
my parents before i was held back two
years uh you know you could just do a
hypertrophy made simple video we have a
whole series of how to design your
program i think it's like 16 videos
they're super basic if you don't
understand those maybe you should be
held back a few grades from third to
second as well
uh
next all right so so that covers the
intermediates
if you're very advanced
and you write a very custom program for
yourself you you know your body super
well are you gonna get a lot out of
these no i'm not gonna lie to you you
probably aren't like if you super super
know exactly every fine-tuned way like
if i wrote this program would i buy it
no i wouldn't buy it do i use this
program myself no i'm not gonna lie to
you guys like i'm not one of these bs
fucking tick tock promoters it's gonna
be like buy my program i use it fucking
liars uh i know my body better than any
program i could ever write so it's all
ad hoc and if you're like that too no
big deal don't buy it however if you're
really into advanced stuff the
hypertrophy book linked in the
description and the advanced hypertrophy
concepts and tools videos are right up
your alley if you understand all that
shit holy crap i'm gonna learn from you
now that's all the naz my boss nick
shaw's probably want to choke me to
death right now because i'm cautioning
company money so let's get to the pros
why would you buy this product that we
just made brand spanking new 50 bucks
it's on sale all that other good sales
copy stuff um if you are intermediate or
advanced so this program really isn't
for beginners i'm not going to lie to
you if you're intermediary advanced and
you want to see how a good program is
built
and then you know this is the program to
buy because like theory stuff is awesome
and all these videos and all this
material we have at rp and all the books
are cool but like sometimes you're like
yeah i get the theory like can i fucking
see a program actually written out by
someone who knows what they're doing so
i can go like oh
that's how you do it aha i see you put
this there that there this is how many
sets this is how you calculate all the
reps like it's a good thing to just get
one of these templates and be like oh i
see how it goes you can use it for a few
message cycles you can take inspiration
from it you can even modify it yourself
and use it yourself with the secret
bullshit you put in there and it's a
very uh sort of worst case you learn a
ton about how to write a good program
if you also are intermediate advanced
and you want you know how to build a
good program but you have trouble
figuring out how a good program is auto
regulated how do you alter the sets and
reps and load and all that stuff week to
week to week in order to keep the
program on track well this program comes
with auto regulation based separately on
the amount of soreness you're
experiencing and how big your pumps are
raises and lowers the sets exactly
custom to you it progresses the load in
a certain way if you want to look at how
it's auto regulated you do one or two of
these message cycles in this program you
buy all of a sudden you're like holy
shit that's how this works you could
take a lot of insight you could write
your own programs from then on you could
write programs for clients and friends
and be that much better at again it's
really awesome to just see how it works
in real life lastly kind of the most
obvious reason to buy this you're
intermediate or advanced and what does
that mean like you've been training two
to three years at least you have some
decent muscle on you you kind of know
what's going on
if you're that or more advanced and you
really want to bring up a specific
muscle group like your chest is a weak
point you're fucking sick and tired of
it buy the shit and it'll probably grow
your chest now why'd i say probably
there's a chance it won't of course it's
like listen real rp is all about real
talk never gonna fucking lie to you guys
about this bullshit enough people are
doing that on youtube tick tock fuck
talk whatever i'm not even into the
social media world that much so for real
if you're tired of having a small chest
or small biceps or whatever this program
is a really fucking good attempt by us
myself james hoffman um
jake reed probably some phds you've
never heard of jared father so on and so
forth even charlie jung had a hand in it
uh we really tried to write this to just
make your chest or biceps or quads or
hamstrings whatever muscle you pick on
the actual website want to make them
bigger and this is a program designed to
keep the rest of your body
good and trained and at least the same
size possibly slowly bigger over time
but really pour in all of your hard
intelligent work into the muscle that
you're sick and tired of being smaller
than everything else so if you really
want kind of like an answer like a stamp
give this program a shot for the love of
god it's 50 you're not losing that much
and if it doesn't work for you and if
you hate it comment on a later video and
said dr mike you suck how dare you and
i'll cry an emoji tear for you um yeah
that's it give it some thought i got a
little quirk thing here paid or free
we've got you covered at rp i'm on to my
next job selling used cars see you guys
next time
you