here's the smartest back workout I've
ever designed using the most upto-date
scientific
research welcome back Dr Milo wol here
real doctor not the fake kind proud
owner of a back that can only be
described as a dining room table let's
break down what I think is the best back
session according to the science first
we need to discuss what makes a session
effective when it comes to training the
back well first of all a single session
needs to fit within your program as a
whole if you're training your back once
a week the optimal session will look
very different compared to if you were
training it say five times a week so
when I'm discussing this session keep in
mind that this is designed to be used in
the context of you training your back
two to three times a week with a similar
sort of session as what I'm about to
give you the reason the session is
designed to be used two to three times a
week is because we have research
suggesting that training a muscle group
at least twice a week is going to be
better for muscle growth compared to
once a week the next big thing within a
good session is that we want to limit
redundancy we want to make sure every
muscle group we're trying to Target is
being effectively targeted whenever you
train a given muscle group in a single
session you get diminishing returns with
each additional set the first set you do
is the most effective on a set per set
basis and so doing 15 sets for your lats
in a single session but doing nothing
that really stimulates your upper back
is likely a poor use of your time what
this means is that we don't want to do a
ton of similar movements for a given
muscle group at the expense of hitting
other muscle groups better for example
doing pull-ups and then follow that with
assisted pull-ups and then following
that with pull Downs that's going to be
great for your lats but actually not
that much better compared to just doing
some pull-ups and then doing some rows
for example and in the latter case you
actually get a good stimulus for your
upper back as well so we want to avoid
redundancy within your session when it
comes to excise selection and also rep
ranges and when it comes to rep ranges
we want to pick the rep ranges that are
best for muscle growth specifically for
muscle growth a sets of anywhere from 5
to 50 reps will be optimal for
hypertrophy provided you take them close
enough to failure but there in lies the
challenge most people will have trouble
taking a set close enough to failure
with super High Reps for that reason for
feasibility and for pushing yourself
sufficiently close to failure most of
your training for any muscle group
should happen in sort of 5 to 15 rep
range indeed we have research suggesting
that when you go above about 12 to 15
reps your accuracy in determining how
close to failure you are does break down
quite a bit with that being said we do
want to include a variety of rep ranges
within your session there is some
evidence suggesting that using a variety
of rep ranges so not just going heavy or
just going light is going to be better
for muscle growth so going heavier on
some exercises and going lighter on some
exercises again this comes back to the
whole redundancy idea if a session has a
3x10 on everything and very similar
movements over and over again not the
best look next we want to make sure we
do enough sets within that session to
maximally stimulate hypertrophy in the
context of your whole training week that
means we want to train each muscle group
that we're targeting with at least five
sets or so for that session and maybe
all the way up to 15 sets indeed some
more recent research actually suggests
that volumes of up to maybe 25 to 40
sets or so could provide greater
hypertrophy compared to just 10 to 20
sets per week with that being said 10 to
20 sets per week per muscle will still
be highly effective for a muscle you're
not trying to specialize on or if you
just want a very good growth so for
muscle groups you're really focusing on
getting five to maybe all the way up to
15 sets in a single session is a good
idea next for a really effective back
workout we want to make sure each set is
taken sufficiently close to failure to
maximize muscle growth what does that
mean well a recent meta regression by
Robinson and colleagues showed that The
Closer you take a set to failure the
more hypertrophy you see on a set per
set basis however ever what I would do
is earlier in a session I would go
slightly further from failure so it's
not to cause too much fatigue that can
impair performance later in that session
so you want to stay slightly further
away from failure in the earlier
exercises in the session and go closer
and closer to failure as you reach the
end of your session the same also
applies for individual exercises on the
first couple sets of an exercise stay a
little bit further away from failure and
then gradually inch closer to failure as
you go that way you still get the
benefit of taking some sets close to or
to failure but you do not get the
impairment of causing too much fatigue
too early into a session all too much
next up pick maximally effective
exercises for each muscle group I have a
whole series on this topic and you can
check that out somewhere here for the
back but here is the breakdown the
exercise we pick should be stable the
target muscle group should be the
limiting factor it should Target one of
the functions of the muscle we're trying
to Target it should be stretch friendly
that is to say you both get a good
stretch in the Target muscle group you
can do lengthen partials on that
exercise pretty safely and there's is
plenty of tension in that stretched out
position ideally the position you're in
should be as least fatiguing as possible
that is to say you sit down when you can
versus standing up you don't bend over
when you can avoid it as being bent over
or standing up in a variety of exercises
generally causes a bit more fatigue for
non-target muscle groups than just
sitting down and finally whatever
exercise we pick especially if you're
short on time should be time efficient
and that means generally things like
dumbbell work and stack loaded machines
are better than barbells for this
science-based backw we want to make sure
we pick the most effective rest
intervals between sets based on the
evidence we have that means at least 60
seconds for most if not all exercises
and perhaps closer to 2 to 3 minutes of
rest between sets for more compound
exercises ultimately though if you
prefer taking shorter rests you can
likely see the same hypertrophy by just
doing more sets with a shorter rest time
exercise order within your session isn't
all that important I have a whole video
on that somewhere here but let me give
you a quick breakdown generally the
there may be a very slight marginal
benefit to starting with the exercises
that are most important to you if for
example you're focusing on your lats at
the moment and you're really trying to
bring them up maybe starting your back
workouts with your lat exercises is a
good idea we'll also generally want to
order our sessions in a way that
maximizes performance across the board
if for example you find that starting
your session with barbell bent over rows
reduces performance on the subsequent
lat pull down but starting with lat pull
Downs doesn't reduce performance on your
subsequent bend over rows maybe you'd
want to start with pull Downs first
Follow by bent over rows so to maximize
performance on both exercises as a
general rule of tho exercise order
doesn't matter all that much and the
more compound exercises should probably
come first and finally you need to make
sure you use good technique on all
exercises what does this mean well a
recent review paper I was involved in
identified three main components of good
technique for building muscle first you
should make sure that the range of
motion you use emphasizes the stretched
position that means that you want to use
at least a full range of motion really
focusing on the stretch or you can use
length and partials and focus on the
stretch even more second you want to
make sure your reps take at least 2
seconds or so with your Ecentric at
least being somewhat controlled in
general having your Ecentric phase
potentially last a little bit longer
than your concentric phase is a good
idea and finally whenever possible you
probably want to minimize involvement of
non-target muscle groups when you're
doing a barbell bent overall for example
you don't want to do the chicken Shug
where you're essentially involving your
hips AKA glutes hamstrings adductors and
lower back a lot more than necessary
because ultimately this doesn't really
add much to your back stimulus but it
does potentially add more fatigue
overall without further Ado here's a
super effective science-based back
workout first we're going to start with
an upper back focused exercise ideally
try a chest supported t-bar row if you
don't have a chest supported t-ball row
try a prime machine row if you have it
or otherwise any sort of chest supported
machine roll will do or even an incline
dumbbell rope as I broke down in the
best back exercise video somewhere above
here I think the chest supported Tor is
a great choice this movement will Target
scapular retraction and adduction which
helps emphasize theom boids and the
middle and lower traps and shoulder
transverse extension which helps Target
the rear ads perform this exercise for
three to five sets of five to 10 reps
starting the exercise around three reps
away from failure and then for your last
set go all the way to one rep we reserve
inch a little bit closer to failure with
each set between sets rest for 2 to 3
minutes in general if you feel ready to
perform another set that's similar in
performance to the last one that's a
good sign that you've rested enough why
is this exercise good well first of all
your chest is being supported so you're
minimizing fatigue on for example you
glutes adductors hamstrings and lower
back muscles that will otherwise need to
stabilize the load a lot more second
because of the way a T Bar moves there
is the most tension in the bottom
position which is likely a good thing
for hypertrophy on this xise will be
using a rep range of 5 to 10 because
rows usually work better in my
experience in the lower rep range
ultimately they are relatively compound
movement where you have some stabilizing
muscle groups involved they also hit the
lats pretty well so what happens when
you're targeting them with High Reps is
often times you'll get out of breath or
you'll end a set not because the back is
fatigued but because you're overall
fatigued aim for closer to five sets if
you're really trying to focus on the
upper back or if you're only training
your back once or twice a week and
closer to three sets if your upper back
isn't as big of a focus or if you're
doing more sessions across the week
targeting your back next up we'll do a
lat focused exercise and for the lat
focused exercise I recommend trying an
underhand pull down the underhand pull
down targets shoulder extension which
helps us grow the lats and the terra's
major prominantly perform this exercise
for 3 to five sets of 10 to 20
repetitions taking the first set to
about two reps in reserve and the final
set all the way to failure once again
inch a little bit closer to failure with
each additional set with a lat pull down
because fewer muscle groups are involved
in stabilizing the load I find it's a
bit more appropriate to higher rep range
like 10 to 20 reps in this case than for
example any sort of roaring variation
while pull Downs usually don't do a
great job of targeting that stretched
position you can increase the stretch
focus by doing length and partials
between sets for the underhand pull down
rest for 2 to 3 minutes for your third
exercise in this session you have two
choices either you can go with a more
lat focused exercise if you would rather
grow bigger lats or you can go with an
upper back Focus exercise for an upper
back focused exercise try a high row
variation for 3 to five sets of 10 to 15
reps between one rep and Reserve all the
way to failure on the last set or
alternatively if you want more of a lat
Focus try the dumo pullover as a
finisher for High Reps try the dbo pull
over 3 to five sets of 20 to 30 reps on
the first set going from one rep in the
tank on the first set all the way to
failure by a last set because you'll be
going for very High Reps make sure
you're going close to failure if the
movement isn't getting slower with those
last few reps in the set there's a good
chance you're not as close to failure as
you think why the dumbbell pullover well
the dumbbell pullover is highly stretch
friendly increasing the tension on the
lats as you reach deeper and deeper and
lengthen them and you're also minimizing
fatigue and reducing the amount of
moving Parts by lying down between sets
of the high rro or the dumo pullover
rest for about 2 minutes for the final
exercise in this session we'll be
targeting a muscle group that hasn't
really been trained that effectively
within this session yet and that is the
upper traps for our upper trap focused
exercise I recommend the seated dumbbell
shrug this movement targets scapular
elevation which helps us Target the
upper traps on this movement i' like to
do a drop set to save some time and make
training the upper traps a little bit
more engaging I'll do one activation set
followed immediately by 42% load drops
the first set should have about 10 to 15
reps and each subsequent set will often
have between 5 and eight reps however
many you can get for this movement take
the first set to about one repon reserve
and gradually inch closer to failure
with each each additional set going all
the way to failure on your last set
after you're done with the set
immediately grab the next lightest
dumbbells and start the next set and
finally you can finish off the session
with any biceps or rear DT or forearm
work that you desire that way you have a
complete pull session or you can just
keep it a pure back session using the
exercise that I mentioned let's go
through a checklist of an effective
session and make sure we've hit all the
boxes first have we limited redundancy
well yeah we have we have one upper back
focus exercise which involves certain
functions we have one flat focused
exercise which involves a different set
of functions then we have a third
exercise that can be somewhat redundant
but it is going to be adding more volume
for a specific body part that you're
trying to focus on and finally we have
an upper trap focused exercise so all in
all we've limited redundancy in terms of
excise selection in terms of rep ranges
we have also limited redundancy by
including a variety of rep ranges next
we've made sure to include maximally
effective rep ranges all of the work
you'll be doing has at least five reps
per set and no more than about 30 reps
per set we've also made sure to include
a variety of rep ranges across the
session to potentially get a little bit
more muscle growth next as far as volume
growes we have hit a very effective
amount of volume provided this session
is repeated twice or three times a week
by taking each set to between three reps
Reserve all the way to failure we are
also targeting relative intensities or
proximities to failure that are highly
effective all the exercises we picked in
this session the chest supported t-ball
Row the lat pull down the seated
dumbbell shrug they all focus on the
lengthen position in some regard or
relatively stable minimize fatigue by
having you sitting down or being chest
supported whenever possible we've also
made sure to rest for at least 60
seconds but usually 2 to 3 minutes
between sets while exercise order is not
the be all end all we've generally
structured things in a way that has your
most important muscle groups the most
compound movements trained first and
finally by having enough of an eccentric
phase making sure we're not rushing the
tempo but not going overly slow by
having a focus on the lengthen position
and by minimizing involvement of other
non-target muscle groups we've made sure
that we're using optimal technique for
muscle building for all exercises that's
the video that is the most effective
science-based back workout that I can
come up with at this point in 2024 if
you like the video please comment like
subscribe I appreciate your support if
there's anything else you want to see or
you have any questions about this
session leave a comment down below if
you'd like me to coach you feel free to
check out the link above for coaching
with that being said have a great day
and I'll see you you next time peace