hey folks it's me Dr mikeal for
Renaissance periodization should you be
concerned about insulin resistance AKA
lack of insulin
sensitivity if you are doing
bodybuilding or muscle growth training
or Sports of any kind so first of all
what is insulin resistance in this
context we're talking mostly about
what's called peripheral insulin
resistance it's generally when your
muscle cells and your fat cells get
worse at using insulin to transport
glucose from the bloodstream into the
cell interior itself that's what insulin
does it's a transport facilitator and as
your insulin resistance goes up the same
amount of glucose doesn't shuttle
through for the same amount of insulin
use and you have to shoot more insulin
into the bloodstream via the pancreas to
get the same shuttling effect this is
not great for a few reasons one is it
tends to not fill up your cells with
nutrients as much which is bad deal the
second thing is generally speaking as
you develop insulin resistance your
muscle becomes more resistant to insulin
before your fat cells if you think this
through that means some way on the way
to insulin resistance your muscles get
really bad at absorbing the glucose that
hugely stimulates and supports
hypertrophy also there's an insulin
mediated transport of a bunch of amino
acids as well uh oh so and also insulin
directly is uh an actual anabolic
activator for a bunch of Pathways in the
cell and a huge activator of anti-c
catabolism so the the when insulin locks
into its receptors it actually tells the
muscle cell to stop degrading its
structure as much as it normally does if
this isn't happening as much in muscle
cells you're going to be less prone to
gain muscle and more prone to lose it
while at the same time the fat cells are
still fairly sensitive which means all
the stuff in your bloodstream that the
insulin is not gobbling up to go into
your muscle cells it's more likely to go
into your your fat cells which is a
really bad deal it just insulin
resistance makes you less muscular and
more fat holy shit that's a bad deal and
after a while if it happens for a long
time your pancreas produces more and
more insulin to compensate because you
can't get nutrients into the cells your
body's pretty sensitive to that sort of
thing it starts to increase how much
insulin it shoots into the bloodstream
to get those nutrients into the cells
and at some point it can actually
overstress the pancreas it's trying to
produce too much insulin pancreas
decides to smoke its last cigarette di
of old age and then you become diabetic
formally you get type 2 diabetes and
that's very very bad for you on the way
to that if even if you never get to it
you can get what's called pre-diabetes
which just just mildly elevated blood
sugar but since your blood sugar is
mildly elevated sort of chronically this
is very very very bad for your health in
like a trillion different ways if you
give it a Google of like how is high
blood sugar bad for my health oh my
fucking God it'll eventually make you
blind it makes your distal uh nervous
system start to malfunction and die so
you get what's called distl neuropathy
which means like you can't feel your
fingertips or toes anymore a lot of
times you'll get a cut on your
fingertips and toes and it'll take like
forever to heal because your uh the
distal parts of your body are sort of
dying off this is really really bad deal
now that's all went well into type two
diabetes but pre-diabetes starts to
damage those structures and for sure the
last thing on your body's priority list
is making sure you stay jacked so if you
are starting to get insulin resistant
then getting jacked is kind of fucking
out of the equation and you're just
trying to prevent as much muscle loss
and fat gain as possible real real real
bad news so should we be concerned about
it especially as bodybuilders well if
you if the following demographic then
you absolutely almost certainly don't
have to be concerned with insulin
resistance if you're under age 40 if you
are training hard and regularly and
you're not obese which in this
categorization will say you are south of
25% body fat as a male and south of
something like 35% body fat as a female
since precisely one half of a female
watches this channel I'm just talk about
males from now on what's up
fellas dry shit in here huh in any
case if you're not close to 25% body fat
35 for females if you're 5% lower if
you're like 20% as a male 15% as a male
Etc you really almost certainly have
nothing to worry about because you have
tons of muscle you're really active it's
just not a concern unless you have the
worst genetics of all time and you
should kind of know that through family
history and especially if you don't
super bulk for like a year straight so
if you maintain relatively remotely
athletic lean physique and if you are
training hard regularly you train four
five or six days a week hard you get
some decent amount of physical activity
you're walking around unless you have
the worst gentics of all time it's
really really hard to become inl
resistant and if you super bul which
means G gain like 30 40 pounds most of
that is fat over the course of like a
year straight you could start to get a
little bit insulin resistant but as soon
as you do your first cut three or four
weeks later you're not insul resistant
at all so this is nothing to worry about
for that demographic however if you're
older especially over 40 years old and
the old the more over 40 you are the
more this is a concern and you are on
special sport supplements specifically
growth hormone yes insulin resistance is
a realistic concern for you and you
should do things to make sure that it
doesn't bite you in the ass or your
fingers and toes and your eyes to be
more specific that's fucking disturbing
so if you are older and you are taking
let's say growth hormone either one of
those actually even if you're younger
taking growth hormone or if you're older
not taking growth hormone and especially
if you're older taking growth hormone
then there are a couple of rules I would
follow personally and recommend that you
consider that will massively reduce your
chances of developing insulin resistance
and all the bad things that happen from
it one is I would just never get over
20% body fat as a male and over 30% body
fat as a female just just don't do
it secondly if and when you bulk when
you bulk just cap it at like half a
pound per week at most so that means
that over the course of a 12we massing
phase you could gain only six pounds
that is a good insurance policy to
minimize the chances that you develop
insulin resistance you can go faster and
risk a bit more I personally wouldn't I
think that's a bad idea stay very active
right 8,000 steps a day at least on
average more like 10,000 plus would be
really even better and train hard with
high volumes that allows you to hard
training itself stimulates glucose
uptake it clears the bloodstream it
reverses temporarily the insulin
resistance it makes you more insulin
sensitive for hours afterwards and if
you stack six workouts a week together
like that you're really like doing an
anti-diabetic action the bigger your
muscles can be and the smaller your fat
cells can be than the more anti-diabetic
anti-insulin resistance pro-insulin
sensitivity action you're imposing and
that stuff works longterm so like if
you're really big and really muscular
and really lean and you're very active
it's just profoundly difficult to be
insulin resistant but if you're the
opposite of those things small amount of
muscle mass high amount of fat Mass
you're older and you don't train much or
very hard you're looking at some decent
likelihood that this could be coming
down the pipe for you if you are on
growth
hormone very well I would consider a
long acting insulin like lantis or
something like that to use with growth
hormone at least for some of the time
definitely when you're massing most
cases when your fat loss phase and
growth hormone you don't have to use it
potentially doing a workout window
insulin as well like a Humalog or
something especially if you're getting
really big especially towards the end of
a mass
phase probably supplementing with
metformin uh twice a day I'm not going
to discuss dosages on here but talk to
your doctor metformin is an essentially
an insulin sensitizer and is a very good
it's a longevity drug it increases
lifespan of animals kind of all good
check marks all around stay
lean which means mini cut as needed to
stay below 15% body fat as a male and
25% as a
female 15% fat if you're taking growth
hormone in most cases just isn't that
hard it's a hell of a drug and if you
take it intelligently and you're not a
fat piece of shit with your diet then
you can stay lean no problem you don't
really have to try hard but if you take
growth hormone let's say you don't add
in some insulin into the equation you
don't take metformin and you super bulk
all the way up to 280 PBS you're going
to have some fucking problems because
growth hormone itself causes acute
shortterm insulin resistance if you
expose your body to that sort of
situation all the time your bloodstream
carbohydrate level tends to be elevated
over time it wrecks your body over the
long term and it causes you to be more
likely to develop type two diabetes in
the future not some shit you want to do
a growth hormone is this incredibly
powerful thing that can keep you way
leaner than you thought was possible
chronically use it for that end it's one
of these things where if you have a race
car you can put race car fuel in it it
makes sense but if you have a Honda
Civic my preferred car of
choice why the fuck would you put racing
fuel in it maybe it'll even fuck the
Honda Civic up a little bit the wears
and tears on the engine I don't know
anything about cars just making that up
but it's kind of like why would you put
this exotic material in if you're not
living the lifestyle or having the the
architecture for it so what I'm saying
here is this if you're going to use
growth hormone to be as good at enhanced
bodybuilding as you can be you also have
to eat mostly clean healthy foods most
of the time can you have a bit of
bullshit here and there of course but
you have an only junk food diet and
you're just trying to become a sloppy
fat piece of shit the use of growth
hormone with that means you're kind of
doubling the probability that you are
going to expose yourself to something
that ends up causing insulin resistance
it's a bad deal so when you start taking
something like GH stay the fuck away
from like super bulk diets bulk slow
stay lean good news growth will make
that easier but don't get into this
insane thing where you're like I'm 200
lb I'll just bulk for the next8 months
to get to 250 those days are over that's
your Natty High School days you got a
bulk to 220 over the next six months and
you're going to find out that you can
stay super lean and you won't become
insulin resistant and that's kind of a
self-solving problem so there's that and
th those are my recommendations as well
as staying very active at minimum of 8K
steps a day on average I would say 10 to
12K on average is a really good thing
your probability of developing insulin
resistance in that case if you're
muscular you're intelligently using
supplementation and you're very active G
whiz you know training hard you're very
very unlikely to develop it but it's
something you have to keep your eye
on here's what won't do much because if
you Google how to treat insulin
resistance and uh you may find some
stuff that's actually just either wrong
or highly
overstated there is no avoiding hard
training if you want to grow but if you
want to grow the most your training
needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
results one is people say well what
about like if I do low carbs on my offda
won't that create an insulin sensitive
environment it might but if you raise
your fat intake to keep your calories
High then it's actually the way they
induce insulin resistance in animal
models and in rats for example is they
just overfeed them saturated fat they
don't even feed a more carbs so an
excess amount of calories exposed to the
system is the most contributory thing to
insulin resistance it's not even
carbohydrates it's just calories so if
you're saying well I'm going to low
carbet but I got to recover so I'll eat
more fats uhuh and if you say I'm just
going to drop my calories on off days
well yeah how the f are you supposed to
recover and gain Mass if you're just
like eating almost nothing on your
fucking off days that's kind of stupid
the real thing is to take how many
calories you're exposing your body to
over time over weeks and months contract
that down so it's a mild Surplus and
then off days on days it's all it ends
up in the wash it doesn't fucking matter
because if you're lean and you're not
gaining too much body fat off day on day
calories make no no fucking detectable
difference at all so it's not like you
can be 280 lbs big gold gut hanging over
and you're like yeah man fucking doing
low carbs in my off days for insulin
shut up shut up shut up that doesn't
mean any fucking thing if you lose a
bunch of fat that is the number one way
to become more insulin sensitive is get
leaner it is the most predictable thing
I've ever seen in blood work it's just
the fucking miracle and it's not that
much of a miracle it's kind of obvious
if you eat a shitload of food you train
less and you're less active and you get
really fat your probability of
developing insulin resistance really
goes up if you reverse all those things
eat less food you can still bulk but
bulk slower stay leaner train really
hard with high volumes stay active all
of a sudden your probability goes way
way way way down if you find yourself at
a higher body weight and body fat at
some point and you're like I really got
to clean it up if you dunk your body fat
you know if you're a female closer to 17
18% if you're a male something below 10%
and you stay there for you know a few
weeks you are going to insulin sensitize
yourself like crazy so a lot of times
getting nice and lean is really a good
ticket to making sure that that stuff
doesn't creep up on you another thing
that doesn't do shit is cardio after
lifting weights like high-intensity
interval training or some shit like that
you'll see bodybuilders and other people
posting like trying to keep that insulin
sensitivity up so after we hit bench and
and flies and and bicep curls I did some
treadmill stuff like the fuck what like
you have to do finish your workout and
go recover which means eating lots of
food and lots of carbohydrate lots of
protein yeah what about insulin
resistance well if you have a high
number of steps throughout the day and
you're not a fat piece of shit and you
train hard that is all the big check
marks you ever have to hit there like
two cardio sessions where you do some
Hill Sprints 15 minutes twice a week is
a fucking tiny drop in the bucket for
insulin resistance if you're eating Taco
Bell for meals or something like that so
keep that in mind there's no way to like
short-term minis session cardio your way
out of this it has to be a lifestyle and
especially a total body fat situation
lastly overthe counter supplements and
herbs it just don't work all that well
if at all right so some of the over the
counter supplements have been shown to
very marginally affect insulin
resistance but it's always a small
amount and most of them just actually
don't do anything as far as we can
detect for insulin resistance so yeah
you gotta you know if you're fucking
around with gorth hormone or something
like that you're going to have to take a
few other drugs to make sure it doesn't
fucking kill you in the long term well
kills you less quickly it's still going
to get you one way or
another
lastly all right I've scared you guys up
enough how can you tell to what degree
because it's a spectrum insulin
resistance is a spectrum it's a spectrum
of resistance on one end and then High
sensitivity on the other you're
somewhere on it how can you tell well
just regular blood work that you should
be getting once a year or once every six
months depending on how hardcore into
bodybuilding you are you can add a test
that's pretty much free and covered by
all insurance and if it's not it costs
like nothing called the glycosilated
hemoglobin test it's also known as the
A1C test and it is a measure of how much
excess or rather how much blood
glucose you had on average every day for
the last three months which is really
really awesome because if you're insulin
resistant it will show you that your
blood glucose because it wasn't fucking
going into the cells anymore as much was
like really high what ends up happening
is the glucose it like looks around has
nowhere to go and it just ends up
attaching itself to various parts of
cells and it actually uh has these
glycosilation branches that it kind of
like it's almost like if if you uh watch
like a slow-mo zoomed in version of
water crystallizing on like like a nail
like super zoomed in a metallic nail it
like makes these clusters on it right
and it's same way but imagine the nail
is your blood cell red blood cell he uh
uh you know parts of uh which are you
know hemoglobin molecules and then the
uh the extra glucose is like I got
nowhere to go might as well crystallize
on this fucking cell is first of all
it's not great that it's doing that
because uh glyc illation is actually
quite dilar and variety of functions
within some normal range is totally fine
but the more intense it is the worse it
is and if you're diabetic you're the
hemoglobin is fucking out of the swirl
glycosilated it's got all these branches
on it not supposed to be there and
there's an index which measures the like
oscillation and it's under 5.2 the value
is 5.2 is generally considered good but
if you're under five entirely and closer
to four it's better and better and
better sometimes if you score low enough
like close to four even below the test
comes back as like just null it's like
we couldn't find anything so you're good
to go um generally when I go get my
blood work done that's what I tend to
see is like either they got nothing or
it's somewhere below five if it's 5.1
5.2 mini cut time or real fat loss cut
time something for real because you
don't want that shit going higher if you
get above you know 5.3 5.4 you are now
considered pre-diabetic and sometimes
it's a measurement off so don't freak
out too much but it's time to lose some
body fat and that's the number one
weapon you have realistically in
managing your long-term blood glucose
exposure is your body fat and your
activity level uh ramp up your activity
level ramp down your body fat almost
every time your blood glucose is going
to start behaving much better and then
you're going to have much less chance
for developing insulin resistance here's
the thing when you're in the normal
range and even pre-diabetic if you
change your life around you can reverse
the shit altogether
and there's no real long-term lasting
damage if you end up developing type 2
diabetes which you'll see A1C scores
like seven8 N I think some people have
seen like 15 before that's like you're
just walking dying while you're walking
like a fucking zombie then that really
causes some man I don't want to put too
fine a point in it but like irreparable
long-term damage and you you may never
have a properly working until biotech in
10 years cures all this shit for the
next 10 years you may not have if you
make it that far you may not have a
properly working glucose dynamic system
in your body because you fucked it so
hard you there's no unfuckingbelievable
uh live your life but if they're
creeping and above five and into the mid
fives it's time to think about it and
time to do some serious fat loss serious
enhancement of physical activity and uh
definitely talk to your doctor medical
provider about like hey I'm like a
little bit concerned about insulin
sensitivity is there anything I can do
to improve it and they may have some
great ideas for you thanks for tuning in
folks uh like subscribe swipe left or
right I don't know what platform we're
on if you're a new subscriber h hello
welcome hopefully you're learning stuff
and we'll see you guys next time for the
next
video