hey folks welcome to the RP diet app
version 1.8 quick visual tour some new
things here your home screen is much
more expanded you can check in all of
your meals here and all of your
weigh-ins in one screen you don't have
to go anywhere
as you can see here the meal check-in
screen that we're looking at looks a
little bit different you can still check
multiple meals but this time they don't
just disappear after you check them in
so you can still look at them and we
check in a couple meals for you to
demonstrate another really cool thing is
that these meals can be edited so if you
check in a meal incorrectly you can
actually go back and change it so that
it is correct next up are the weigh-ins
you're gonna scroll down to see the
weigh-ins and you're gonna click on that
weigh-in button and of course you're
gonna enter your body weight that you
had for that day and once you have
confirmed that click weigh-in and as
soon as you've confirmed it you can see
that up at the top of the app in the
important items the weekly weigh-in is
not there anymore so once you're caught
up on weigh-ins you're good
in the weekly review section if you
click on it what it's gonna do is it's
gonna show you all of the reviews you've
done so far on your current diet so if
you chose to maintain nutrients or
increase nutrients to decrease all of
that history is going to be seen for you
to make sure you're on top of things and
you know where you're headed so no more
confusion that's all there for you so
now we go into our schedule which looks
really different it's now a calendar
view which puts all of your meals and
major events like training waking up and
bedtimes all in one place here we click
on a meal just for you guys to see it
misses somewhere you can view meals if
you want although usually the home
screen is a better place but you can
just make sure everything's correct
which you can also do is click on any of
the scheduling things like bedtime for
example and adjust your schedule right
from there without having to go to any
other kinds of menus now if you want to
see an overview just a real brief
summary of this without having a scroll
all you do is click on that icon up
there and it gives you every single
major event of your day right where you
want it right next to the summary icon
is the meal copying icon we're gonna
click on that we can copy all lifestyles
on all meals right from the screen no
need to go anywhere else so everything
is now much more convenient without
reference to a central menu and here
we're just doing a little brief example
of how meal copying looks nothing too
fancy very similar system to the one
we've had before
highly updated is the statistics screen
which you click on at the bottom right
hand corner it's got all of your meal
check and streaks your meal adherence
how far you are from your goal and your
progress graph which has been really
really cool feature of the progress
graph is that you can click on each one
of the time points and see your actual
weigh-ins compared to the trend line
very updated great for Instagram
screenshotting and that's that when we
click on the more' menu at the bottom
we're gonna see if the shopping list is
available as always at the top of the
screen the shopping list is revamped one
really interesting new feature is the
custom feature so instead of a shopping
list only being around for the whole
week you can change your starting date
and ending date for example if you
cooked Monday through Wednesday now you
can cook through another day Thursday
through Friday or Saturday until the
next time that you have to cook meals