boy oh boy is it needlessly fancy and
there's a lot of weird movement that
isn't actually hard but looks cool which
I think is really like how you train
people at Hollywood
[Music]
hey I'm Dr Mike Israel I am the creator
of RP hypertrophy app and I'm a
professor of sport and exercise science
at Lehman College in the Bronx and I am
going to critique the Batman workout
comedically let's get started
[Music]
hi I'm Magnus lakebach the founder of
the Magnus method and I'm going to show
you guys this motherfucker sound like
Greta thundberg look at me in the face
when I tell you the Earth is dying my
method is called uh what's a clever name
Magnus method that sound fairies love
his velor sweatsuit too that shit is
fire shit let's find out what he knows
about training
stability you know Batman's carrying
around this heavy suit all day on set so
we needed Ben to have the support he
needed to carry that suit wait hold up
so the suit is a prop now how heavy
could it be
they wanted core stability for an action
role I thought it would just be like get
a big arms and big chest and a big back
oddly utilitarian workout okay let's get
started
so we're gonna start with I'm sorry
that's not Ben Affleck I assume it's a
stand-in and also looks profoundly
European in the best way possible
so the dumbbell front squat is probably
one of the worst possible movements for
lag hypertrophy and I can explain why
using science
holding a dumbbell in a front squat
position is profoundly uncomfortable as
evidenced by the profound discomfort
that person is in right now with a
dumbbell on their neck
you know they have barbells for that
sort of thing they go behind your neck
and it feels 10 times more comfortable
and you can use more weight
he is correct that the core stability
comes before the legs but that is
another way of saying that the limiting
factor for this exercise is core
stability preventing your legs from
getting as good of a workout as they can
and you have minimum load on the spine
minimum load on the spine is good
if you want a fucking weak spine we are
in the gym to load the spine so we can
become strong and if you're saying look
we want maximum load to the legs while
having minimum load to the spine you
have the machines for that it's called
the leg press also a belt squat actually
completely unloads your spine this
doesn't even completely unload your
spine by the way probably the muscle
that's most fatigued in this juncture is
the bicep because it's sole
responsibility is to continue to do this
motion so the dumbbell doesn't roll out
our next exercise is a deadlift what I
love about the deadlift is that it will
work your posterior chain and give you
boost of both testosterone and igf for
one so the deadlift is a great exercise
for overall mass building especially in
your back and upper back and stuff like
that
the thing is for cosmetic effect for
Hollywood actors because remember I know
it's crazy but they don't actually have
to be strong people who can deadlift a
ton are often kind of ghosts where they
don't look super strong but then they
pick up 600 pounds and you're like how
because the spinal erector muscles are
muscles you don't see even you know
unless you have a really tight t-shirt
on or something like that so the
deadlift does in fact boost your
testosterone on igf-1 the thing is those
are transient hormone increases they
increase really quickly and drop back
down it's a tiny amount as far as area
under the curve for the rest of the day
it's essentially meaningless we can
corroborate that is meaningless in at
least two ways one direct literature on
if such spikes of hormones actually
correlate with growth from training has
come out and it says that they don't
and the other problem with that is the
real reason those things Spike
especially the igf-1 and growth hormone
that Spike around heavy compound
movements is because growth hormone has
many roles in your body and one of them
is a fuel Liberator it actually wants to
put more fuel into your bloodstream so
your working muscles get to use it its
increase is doing that here and it's not
burning fat and it's not building muscle
for growth hormone to do that it needs
to be elevated for a long period of time
like it is during sleep but don't fall
asleep while you're dead lifting you
could wake up in pain okay our next I
don't know what it drops it is curiosity
overwhelms me this is an old kung fu
exercise oh it's a Kung Fu exercise that
makes sense you know Batman has a
martial artist it's a lateral lunge it's
important for us to look otherwise known
as a Kung Fu drops It wait yeah
he doesn't think I was gonna be that
fast oh my I take all of that back did
you guys see that swim shit he did
whoa all right now as an exercise of
sports scientist I can assure you the
swim weird swim part does absolutely
nothing to progress your goals nor does
it teach you Kung Fu or make you better
at fighting but God damn it it looks
good I'm doing it tomorrow at my gym
because I I need to have this must have
exercise
so our next exercise is to squat to a
kick it's a great move to to work legs
and also obliques hip flexors and
balance so Hunter's gonna drop down this
is getting wacky I don't know why we're
in the gym anymore
uh was it to get in shape for a
Hollywood roll
or to learn how to kick a
bag
some combination of both that's also
working your fast twitch muscle fibers
if you do it explosive enough so Gee
Whiz It's not actually working your fast
twitch muscle fibers if you're doing it
explosively it is utilizing them but
because they do not meet great
resistance especially on eccentric it's
not stimulating much hypertrophy in them
uh watch this I'm gonna work my fast
twitch muscle fibers ready see how fast
I did that actually is fast twitch
muscle fibers there was nothing
resisting me really so I'm not going to
get Jack forms just catching flies but I
have caught a lot of flies in my day
hey
hey so our last exercise today is a
lateral Hollow Rock that sounds like uh
some shit in Maine that's haunted don't
go to lateral Hollow Rock why not
this works your entire core you're not
really bending the spine if you're not
bending the spine you're not working
your entire core because you see the
majority of the back side of your core
exclusively exists to help resist spine
bending the front of your core exists
mostly to bend the spine so in this
exercise we largely contract the core
isometrically which means muscle
contraction has occurred but not a lot
of movement happens and as actually
isometric contractions are the least
likely to cause muscle growth out of
concentric eccentric and isometric
contractions so this is a profoundly
least possible one of the least possible
effective exercises for your abs but boy
oh boy is it needlessly fancy and
there's a lot of weird movement that
isn't actually hard but looks cool which
I think is really like how you train
people at Hollywood apparently so you
guys just witnessed a typical day from
the Batman program that I did with Ben
Affleck on Justice League obviously
there's more days in the program but
this is something you guys could do
twice a week and it's really going to
help you with flexibility and leg
strength not going to help you with
flexibility unless you can't do a
bodyweight squat which they really kind
of didn't either that guy cut a step but
to be fair they only really did one
movement that pushes your leg strength a
lot and that was the front squat thing
with the dumbbell and that could be done
with a barbell on your back with
hundreds of more pounds and would be way
more effective and also less
inconvenient alright Scott the video guy
says I need to rate these workouts and
give an overall impression I would say
that the on range of motion it was
pretty good
I would say on exercise selection as far
as how stimulative the exercises are how
fatiguing the exercises are how
efficiently the exercise use of time
gets us to our goals we should be
striving for and how closely the
exercise actually meets the whole
program means as far as I can tell to
objectively targeting the goals we want
for superhero Hollywood training I'd
give this one a Solid 5 out of 10. 5 out
of 10. some things that does really well
and everywhere else it's major major
gaps
all right
I've been Dr Mike and I'll see you guys
next
[Music]