[Music]
my name is rich Froning I'm four-time
CrossFit Games individual champion
two-time affiliate Cup champion this
will be my night CrossFit Games season
this will be the first year of the nine
that I've actually paid attention to my
diet whatsoever it's something I've
never really thought about before just
kind of eating whatever I needed to
whenever I felt like I needed to eat I
was eating enough wasn't getting enough
calories
RPS helps to actually show me that I
need more food I need more carbohydrates
I used to throughout the middle of the
day not eat anything at all
and by the afternoon training sessions
fo a bit more beat up with it works
luggage so eating in the middle of the
day has actually helped me a ton for the
evening sessions I feel a lot better I
feel stronger our peas help the tongue
with what time to eat how much to eat
the quality of food I need to get in