a well-developed chest makes a powerful
difference in the appearance of your
physique but what range of exercises do
you need to maximally develop the chest
today we'll be cutting through the noise
and confusion that's forever present on
the web through dissecting the latest
science behind chest hypertrophy regular
viewers will know we've had a previous
video on chest hypertrophy you don't
need to watch that video as the key
points will be mentioned here but
crucially this video Builds on that and
will dive deep into how you can develop
all regions of the pecs we'll be
mentioning virtually every chest
exercise ever from pressing motions at
different inclines with different
modalities with different grip widths
and hand positions and isolation PEC
exercises welcome to the house of
[Music]
hypertrophy technically speaking a few
muscles belong to the chest but we're
focusing on the largest and most
important one for Aesthetics the PS
major anatomical analyses commonly
consider the PS major to have a
clavicular and sternal costal head
although quite fascinatingly the sternal
costal head has been divided up to as
much as seven segments based on one
analysis the clavicular head makes up
19% of the Pet's major volume with the
remaining 81% attributable to the
sternal costal head some Well Control
told electromyographic research which
actually considered six regions finds
they can be functionally separable what
this means is it's theoretically
possible to preferentially Target
different PEC regions this is not Bro
Science for Simplicity we'll just
consider there to be three regions and
I'll refer to them as the upper middle
and lower PEC let us now dive into our
analysis starting with the middle pcks
[Music]
as shown in this classic 1997 paper the
middle PCS have tremendous leverage for
shoulder horizontal flexion with the
front dealt behind in this case leverage
specifically refers to the muscle's
moment arm which is the perpendicular
distance between the line of force of
the muscle and the center of the joint
it moves promising data suggests
Leverage is perhaps the most important
factor behind how the central nervous
system chooses which muscles to activate
in an exercise considering this it's
unsurprising that well-controlled
electromyographic research finds that a
significant chunk of the pecs including
the middle region is active in shoulder
horizontal flexion now we will be
mentioning electromyographic research
throughout this video it's where
researchers use electrodes to record the
electrical activity of a muscle regular
house of hypertrophy viewers will know
it's not Flawless but I believe
well-controlled and specific
electromyographic studies possess the
potential to give us valuable insights
the pinned comment and description
contains more details about this if
you're interested anyhow we also know
the middle PCS are stretched the well at
the initial position of shoulder
horizontal flexion thus shoulder
horizontal flexion motions can attain a
nice stretch plus High Contracting
forces from the middle pecs two things
that make exercise excellent for
hypertrophy your first thought may be
that all fly exercise variations do this
indeed this is true however these are
isolation exercises they will be
dissected later in this video right now
we'll focus on horizontal pressing
exercises which involve all bench
pressing variations including with the
barbell dumbbell Smith machine and
machine also pushup and seated machine
chest presses fit into this category all
of these are compound exercises when
you're pressing with a moderate to wider
grip they tend to involve shoulder
horizontal flexion ignoring the lower
arm reveals this therefore it's
unsurprising that this paper found just
flat barbell bench pressing three times
a week across 6 months grew the middle
PEC by an impressive
37% does this mean the flat barbell
bench press is superior no because as
detailed in our previous video we have a
range of scientific papers that actually
suggest all these variations can
probably be quite similar to the barbell
bench press machine variations have been
documented to produce similar pet growth
and activity to barbells dumbbells tend
to evoke similar PEC activity to
barbells and push-ups have even produced
similar pet growth to barbell benching
now some of you may be wondering about
Di Lips This doesn't actually involve
shoulder horizontal flexion at least not
predominantly but we'll discuss this
more in the lower pet section anyway the
fact all these exercises are likely
similar for pet growth may come as a
surprise to some but remember that at
the end of the day although subtle
differences exist they all fundamentally
involve shoulder horizontal flexion
provided we're training them hard and
getting two or n to failure we're going
to be exposing the peex to high tension
it is also fascinating to know that
scientific literature implies there's a
strong strength carryover between all
these exercises training with a machine
chest press has been shown to
significantly increase barbell bench
press strength the inverse of this is
also true training the Smith machine
bench press has also been shown to
significantly increased barbell bench
mesh strength the inverse of this is
also
true there's Fair fairly strong
correlations between push-up performance
and bench press performance as well as
dumbbell and barbell benching so you're
free to select whichever exercise you
prefer although there are actually five
considerations you may factor into
helping you
choose the first consideration relates
to push-ups since push-ups replicate a
plank position they likely Engage The
rectus abdominis more than all the other
variations since push-ups also enable
scaper protraction they likely engage
the seratus anterior better than all the
other variations depending on your goals
this may make the push-up a better or
worse option although progressively
overloading the push-up in the long term
can be difficult yet despite the popular
belief that 8 to 15 reps or some other
narrow rep range is ideal for
hypertrophy we've mentioned countless
times at the house of hypertrophy that
reps between 6 to 35 are similarly
effective for building muscle provided
these reps are performed too or close to
failure thus progressing to higher rep
push-ups is viable indeed we've had a
great paper that found increasing the
number of reps you perform with the same
load across training sessions produced
overall similar muscle hypertrophy to
another group that increased load within
the same rep range across
sessions now there is only so much you
can add reps going well beyond 3 five
reps may be inferior yet provided you're
not super Advanced weighted push-ups are
a great option that enables load
increases the second consideration
relates to dumbbell bench pressing when
analyzing them the triceps are likely
trained slightly less compared to all
other variations the likely reason for
this is you can't apply much lateral
forces during a dumbbell bench press
doing so would just result in the
dumbbells falling either side of you
this matters as the triceps are in
involved in generating lateral forces
with all the other variations lateral
forces naturally occur whether you know
it or not indeed electromyographic data
finds reduced triceps activity with a
dumbbell compared to a barbell bench
press depending on your goals this may
make it a better or worse option the
third consideration relates to failure
and fatigue with the barbell with
failure we've seen previously at the
house of horty that getting to or close
to failure is need to maximize muscle
fiber Recruitment and tension two things
crucial for maximal growth in fact we
have research on the pecs illustrating
this this paper had trained individuals
trained the Smith machine barbell bench
press with a maximal lifting velocity
there were four groups one group
literally performed one rep per set a
second group performed their reps until
their rep velocity slowed down by 15%
another by 30% and a final Group by 50%
petor major hypertrophy what's best with
the group that trains closest to failure
that is the group whose reps slow down
by 50% extrapolating from other research
a 50% velocity loss equates to
performing 70 to 80% of the maximum
number of reps possible on average this
study didn't have a condition training
to actual failure but as we've seen
previously at the house of hypertrophy
getting 3 to1 reps from failure seems to
produce similar growth to failure so
this is the general recommendation
here's the thing with a freeweight
barbell bench press you're putting
yourself in the safest position by
having a spotter and or a safety setup
that saves you if you fail a repetition
if you don't have these the other
options may be a safer bet the second
Point stems from this fascinating
fatigue paper it had trains men either
perform the Smith machine dumbbell or
barbell bench press chest fatigue
swelling and soreness were quite
comparable between all these three
exercises across 96 hours after training
as a side note this is further indirect
evidence all these variations impose a
similar PE stimulus the triceps fatigue
was not too different between groups
except the dumbbell group saw lower
fatigue and soreness which makes sense
as we've just detailed how triceps
activity is likely reduced with the
dumbbells nonetheless the main point is
despite the fact all these fatigue
measures were largely similar between
the three exercises subject subject
recovery what's worse across the 96
hours after training with the barbell
versus the Smith machine and dumbbell
thus these findings might suggest your
own perception of recovery may be a bit
worse with the barbell yet I don't
believe this is super crucial
information fatigue isn't necessarily
bad plus your body does produce
adaptations across time that reduces the
fatigue you experience so it's entirely
likely that any fatigue from the barbell
variation is in consequential in the
majority of
circumstances the fourth consideration
surrounds machines we've briefly alluded
to how there's data comparing machine to
barbell pressing and similar PEC
hypertrophy was found this might
surprise some because there's been
speculations that extra stability with
machines better enables muscle fiber
recruitment however I think stability is
critical under extreme ends for example
bench pressing on a Swiss ball is
probably going to suck for build muscle
but the extra stability with machines
compared to barbells and dumbbells
doesn't seem to transfer to Greater
growth plus we have meta analyses which
combine the results of numerous studies
finding that overall machine exercises
largely produce similar growth to
barbells and dumbbells now not all
machines in the world are identical but
provided the machine provid solid
resistance at the bottom where the pecs
are stretched it should be good some
machines can can converge to get a
better shortened and contracted position
and perhaps provide a solid challenge
here dumbbells also involve convergence
this is extra shoulder horizontal
flexion near that shortened position and
this convergence and squeeze can feel
nice despite this it probably doesn't
enhance growth since the available data
suggests tension at that shortened
position may not provide extra benefits
specifically we have three studies
remark ably finding that a partial range
of motion at the lengthen position
produces overall better hypertrophy than
a full range of motion this seems to
tell us that that shortened position
which is reached with a full range of
motion doesn't stimulate extra growth
instead we're seeing better growth with
more time spent at that lengthened
position we also have researched finding
isometric training at longer muscle
positions produces more growth and
shorter muscle positions now more data
with other exercises and demographics
are certainly needed to validate this
General concept and the effectiveness of
partials at long lengths but in the
absence of other data it seems high
tension around the lengthened position
is what's more
important linked to this is our fifth
and final consideration of the section
stretch let me first describe some
fascinating research and then we fit
this into how you might enhance your pet
growth besides this data demonstrating
that time accumul ated at the lengthened
position seems to be more anabolic we
have data demonstrating selecting
exercises that reach a better stretch
could build more muscle for example
seated leg holes better stretch out the
hamstrings than lying leg holes and have
been documented to cause 1.5 times more
hamstrings hypertrophy moreover it is
seriously intriguing to know that a
recent study established performing this
intense Peet stretch produced notable
pet growth in fact the growth was
similar to that obtained to another
group of subjects that train the machine
chest fly with these variables of course
achieving a stretch during weightlifting
is far from identical to holding an
intense stretch for a prolonged duration
and I don't anticipate many people
actually want to start holding intense
prolonged stretches regardless I think
this is further illustration of
stretching stimi having positive
influence on growth so what could this
information mean for PEC training floor
presses are variation I've yet to touch
on this limits the extent to which you
lower and thus lengthen the pecs so are
likely sub optimal for growth this
doesn't mean no one should ever do them
they could have application if your goal
is maximum strength or if you're dealing
with some kind of injury or discomfort
that means you can't train the pecs at a
more stretched position anyhow the key
point of this stretch talk is we have
variations that can help us reach a
deeper PEC stretch dumbbells technically
permit you to reach a deeper stretch of
the pecs thus although we've alluded to
electromyographic data showing similar
PEC activity between dumbbells and
barbells one Pitfall of electromyography
is it doesn't measure stretch based
forces so it is actually possible out of
all the variations we mentioned
dumbbells truly could be slightly better
although larger dumbbells can make this
challenging to achieve and this brings
us to two other variations the cambered
bar bench press and deficit push-up both
of these similarly enable a greater
stretch of the PCS thus although we
don't have direct research on them
currently it's possible these variations
could be slightly better for building
the pcks to be as scientifically
accurate as possible we must not neglect
that virtually all the studies on the
benefits of training muscles with more
stretch has been conducted on previously
untrained individuals and last no more
than 12 weeks I mentioned this as there
have been speculations that the extra
growth from training muscles and more
stretch positions is a special type of
growth that plateaus quickly if true
this suggests training at more stretched
positions will just produce similar
gains to training at more shortened
positions after the extra growth
plateaus however this is based on
limited and indirect data moreover there
is some data that suggests there still
could be long-term growth benefits to
training muscles at more stretched
positions but this too is from limited
and indirect data for those who are
interested in the weeds of this I
thoroughly dissect the current science
and deliver my thoughts on this topic at
this link regardless I still think
training muscles at stretched positions
in practice is worthwhile even if those
extra gains Plateau we still want them
moreover the best case scenario is there
still long-term gains to be seen from
them this doesn't mean no one should
ever have training focused at shorter
lengths we've seen that although the
overall growth is less training at
shorter muscle length still stimulates
growth so know that you can still
certainly grow from it additionally a
technical consideration is that with all
else equal training at shter muscle
positions generates less fatigue than
training at longer muscle lengths for
example with all else equal floor
presses likely generate less fatigue
than regular bench pressing in theory
this means you can probably train more
with exercises at shorter muscle lengths
and this extra volume although not time
efficient might go some way to closing
the muscle growth gap between shorter
and longer length training summarizing
this section we've seen that a range of
horizontal presses are likely all
similarly effective for growing the
peegs in including the middle pegs thus
you have the freedom to select whatever
you prefer here are five considerations
that may factor into your choice of
course it is also not outside the realm
of possibility to construct a sensibly
varied program that involves more than
one of these horizontal pressing
variations remember that we'll be
dissecting isolation exercises later on
but let us now transition to the upper
pck
well-developed upper pecs can take your
physique to the next level we've already
described the plethora of horizontal
pressing exercises at your disposal for
developing the middle pecs but how
effective are these for the upper pecs
earlier we noted this paper that found
flat barbell bench pressing grew the
middle PC by
37% what I didn't mention was the
researchers also found that upper PEX
grew by a very similar
36% another Australian paper found flat
bar bench pressing grew the middle PEC
by 10% and the upper PEC by not too far
off
7.4% Note the percentages are lower in
this paper as the subjects were already
trained the study was shorter in
duration and a slightly different size
measurement was taken nevertheless these
papers clearly show horizontal pressing
will contribute to Growing your upper
PEC but does this mean we don't need any
dedicated upper Peck work the answer is
no let let me explain why in both these
papers instead of looking at the growth
in percentages if we look at actual
centimeter increases the upper PEC
actually grew fairly less than the
middle PEC how on Earth could this be
it's because the upper pecs were smaller
in size to begin with a smaller number
to begin with but sees the same or
similar percentage increase to a larger
number still means a smaller total
increase in size resultantly it is
technically accurate to say flat barbell
bench pressing grows the upper PEC less
than the middle PEC now this data is
from the flat barbell bench press but we
know there's reason to believe this
applies to all the horizontal pressing
exercises on the table indeed machine
and even weighted push-up variations
have been documented to elicit similar
upper Peck activity to the flat barbell
bench press consequently to maximize
upper pet growth we likely need an
exercise to preferentially train the
upper pecs how can this be done
well-controlled electromyographic
research finds that the ratio of upper
PEC to Middle Peck activity is better
when the force is directed obliquely
upward instead of purely horizontally
incline bench pressing replicates this
at least in so far as pushing in an
upward Direction indeed out of the seven
studies that have explored this incline
bench pressing produced greater upper
Peck activity compared to the flat
barble bench bench press in five of them
it is also notable that the majority
finds middle and lower PEC activity is
reduced with the incline and front Del
activity is higher with the incline
there's occasionally debates on the
optimal incline angle for targeting the
upper PEX what does the current
literature say one paper found a 30°
incline was ideal another found it was a
44° incline while we even have data
finding similar upper PEC activity
between a 30 and 45° incline besides the
possibility of the limitations with
electromyography measures individual
differences could be in play people
don't have identical muscle architecture
or leverages nor do people have an
identical bench press setup so the ideal
incline angle May differ between people
so if you would like to incline bench
press and your bench is adjustable feel
free to experiment around it's worth
noting incline bench pressing can also
be done with a Smith machine dumbbells
and a cambered bar and we've alluded to
how the extra stretch with a lat to
might confer some extra growth moreover
feet elevated push-ups and certain
machine chest presses where you push
upwards likely effectively hit the upper
PEC although one caveat with feet
elevated push-ups is your head tends to
limit how much you can lower yourself
resulting in a reduced PEC stretch using
some boxes or handles to increase depth
can go some way to alleviate the
shortcoming though so all of these
options likely preferentially Target the
upper pecs but there are actually some
more perhaps under appreciated ways the
upper pecs could be targeted out of all
the PEC regions the upper pecs have the
best leverage for performing shoulder
flexion and well-controlled electromag
graphic analyses find the upper pecs
contribute more to shoulder flexion than
the other regions during horizontal
presses using a closer grip gets you
closer to predominantly performing
shoulder
flexion this is best achieved when
keeping the arms near to the side and
not flared out also using a reverse grip
on a barbell also forces you into
performing shoulder flection regardless
of the grip used we might speculate
these preferentially Target the upper
pecs yet the data is somewhat split
since out of the eight papers comparing
close to moderate and wider grip bench
pressing four of them find upper peack
activity is better with a closer
grip out of the two papers comparing
reverse grip bench pressing to normal
grip bench pressing only one finds
enhanced upper Peck activity as an
additional note the majority of data
finds closer grips better recruit the
triceps When comparing these variations
to an incline bench press with a wider
grip we just have this paper that found
upper PEC activity was not stat
statistically different between a closer
grip bench press and an incline with a
wider grip although the raw numbers lean
toward the closer grip regardless this
might be tentative evidence closer grips
could be as good for the upper PEX as a
standard incline we shouldn't forget
that closer grips and reverse grips can
even be used with the Smith machine
dumbbells and even push-ups so there is
a fair number of potential upper Peck
options we'll provide some
recommendations in a second I say this
because we're not quite done it's
possible for us to use a closer or
reverse grip on an inclined angle could
this be the best the only analysis from
the literature is this paper that found
compared to an incline bench press with
a wider grip an incline with a closer
and reverse grip produce
non-statistically different upper PEC
activity although the raw numbers lean
towards using closer and reverse grips
on the incline however it's worth
mentioning this paper was the same one
that found flat closer grip bench
pressing produced upper Peck activity
levels that were not statistically
different from the incline with a wider
grip anyhow We'll add closer and reverse
grips with an incline to our already
extensive list the landmine press and
L's fend press are two final exercises
worth mentioning the landmine press
involves pushing in an upward direction
that we no likely preferentially targets
the upper pecs however the very close
hand spacing reduces the overall stretch
of the pecs thus I suspect it's not
going to be as good as all the other
options mentioned but it's certainly not
a bad exercise and it will still build
muscle so if someone really likes it
that can be enough of a reason to train
with it as for the Li's fend press it's
essentially a Clos grip press with an
intense chest squeeze against the plat
the size of the plate means the stretch
is restricted and since that's only so
heavy of a plate you can lift it's going
to be difficult to progress this
exercise in the long term dumbbells can
be used but this still suffers from a
restricted stretch the only scenario
where I think someone may want to
perform this is simply if they find it a
fun and enjoyable addition to their
training so we know there's a ton of
upper Peck options what's the
recommendation we've seen there is
essentially evidence for all of these
variations better targeting the upper
PEC and in The Limited data that has
compared some of these there are
non-significant differences thus for now
I'd simply recommend selecting whatever
option you like although it is possible
what works best could differ between
people for example Greg Knuckles from
Stronger by science not his upper pecs
get outrageously sore from Flat reverse
benching whereas this never happens from
his incline experience thus you could
experiment with any of the variations
and evaluate how they subjectively score
for you do you perceive more upper Peck
with them is the pump and perhaps the
next day soreness in the upper PEC
greater than usual now it's critical to
understand subjective Sensations are not
yet validated proxies for actual muscle
activation and we also know despite
popular belief the intracellular events
associated with a pump and soreness do
not appear to be strong drivers of hyper
y but having said this I believe it's
still plausible when controlling as much
factors subjective Sensations like the
pump and soreness could be indirect
insights to the actual tension seen by a
muscle region so in the absence of
anything else I think it's not the end
of the world for you to try and use your
subjective perception to help determine
what you may train
[Music]
with earlier we Des described evidence
that the different regions of the pecs
can function somewhat independently and
that includes the lower PEC regions for
instance when the arms are nearly
overhead performing a shoulder extension
contraction preferentially recruits the
lower pecs but is dedicated training for
the lower pecs essential recall we've
seen data demonstrating that flat
barbell bench PR highly developed the
middle peek region but the upper PEC
region in absolute terms grows less as
for the lower pecs both both these
papers found it grew pretty similarly to
the middle peek region both in
percentages and centim therefore it
appears flat barbell bench pressing is
highly effective for the lower pcks I'm
presuming this extends to all the other
horizontal pressing exercises so
dedicated lower PEC training may not be
essential whatever horizontal presses
you have could cover you of course this
does not mean no one should ever perform
specific movements for the lower pcks
but perhaps you're constructing a
program with sensible variation that
means an exercise that biases the lower
PEX can fit into your program or
alternatively if you somehow find your
lower PCS are underdeveloped despite
training with your choice of horizontal
presses then dedicated training for your
lower PEX may be called for so how might
the lower PEX be preferentially trained
the lower PEC fibers run in this
direction and it's possible movements
that align with this and press downwards
could preferentially train the lower PEC
area above the other regions such as
decline bench
pressing machine decline pressing hands
elevated
push-ups
dips and isolation exercises that will
cover in the isolation section quite
fascinatingly two electrom myographic
studies that have compared a 15° decline
to a flat barbell bench press found
lower PEC activity was similar between
them in addition to these two papers
there there have been a few other
electrom myographic papers exploring
activity of the other PEC regions
between a decline and flat barbell bench
press the findings are a little mixed
but some of them suggest that upper and
middle pecs as well as the front delts
display lower activity with the decline
therefore although actual lower Peck
activity may not be that different
between a decline and flat angle since
middle and lower pecs display lower
activity in some analyses a decline May
fundamentally still be considered a
valid way to selectively train the lower
PEX over the other
regions as for the dip it has the
capacity to attain a great stretch
unfortunately there's no officially
published research comparing dips to
other common chest exercises I know this
paper compared PEC activity between
different dips with the ring and normal
dips producing decent upper PEC activity
not much comparative conclusions can be
made from this and they didn't assess
the middle or lower pecks besides this
all we have is this unofficial
electromyographic analysis that found
during a weit to dip raw lower activity
what better than the upper and middle
regions at the end of the day feel free
to try out any of these movements your
subjective perception May guide your
[Music]
choice we can say as an overall muscle
shoulder horizontal flexion is the
motion that best trains it isolate ated
shoulder horizontal flexion occurs with
flies including cable machine and
dumbbell flies before comparing them
could these PEC isolation exercises grow
the pecs better than the compound
exercises we've talked about when
comparing isolation to the compound
movements there's no movement at their
elbow meaning we're taking the triceps
out of the equation you might guess this
means our central nervous system can
better activate our PEX with the
isolation exercises and there thereby
produce greater PEC hypertrophy versus
compound exercises despite being logical
the available data does not support this
we know that dumbbell flies are most
challenging at the lower part and during
this phase two papers find peeg activity
was comparable to that of the flat
barbell bench press although one of the
analyses found if we look at average
activity across the whole exercise the
bench press actually evoked higher peeg
activity this was largely because the
activity at the top portions was better
with the bench press I don't believe
this means bench pressing is a superior
PEC Builder because we've already
detailed how it currently seems extra
activity and more shortened and
contracted positions doesn't cause extra
growth another analysis found both front
Del and pec activity was similar between
a barbell bench press and machine chest
fly as the authors concluded the results
clash with the idea that isolation
exercises promote greater activ ity of
the Prime movers due to isolation due to
this I'd say isolation exercises are
likely not essential for substantially
growing the pecs over the long term
compound exercises such as your choice
of horizontal pressing and an upper
chest biased compound movement is likely
going to be sufficient for seeing
substantial PEC hypertrophy in the long
term does this mean no one should ever
perform isolated PEC training not at all
it is absolutely possible to constru a
sensibly varied program that includes
compound and isolation exercises for the
pecs as a simple illustration you may
have a flat bench press incline bench
press and cable fly not entirely
disconnected from this perhaps you deem
you have sufficient amounts of triceps
training in your program but you want to
train the PC more without additional
triceps stimuli in this case isolated
PEC training is the perfect solution
finally I also don't want to rule out
the possibility of individual
differences averages have been detailed
throughout this video including the
finding that PEC activity is not so
different between compound and isolation
movements yet it's within the realm of
possibility for some people much of the
compound exercises detailed in this
video regardless of how they perform it
just predominantly taxes their triceps
and much less dep picks in fact some
research albeit having a few notable
limitations point to this thus isolated
PEC training might be needed for these
people to truly stimulate their pecs
better with these reasons out the way
how can we most effectively isolate the
pecs when looking at cable flies
starting with the cables in line with
the arms these will provide a greater
challenge in their shorter muscle
positions this isn't terrible muscle
growth will still occur from shortened
positions also remember with all else
equal shorten training likely generates
less fatigue accordingly if we want an
isolation exercise that generates lower
fatigue but will still provide a fair
stimulus this variation is an ideal
Contender but assuming your recovery is
all good we know challenging muscles
near a more lengthened position is
likely a great idea having a setup with
a cable somewhat behind your body better
challenges that lengthened position they
can also be performed laying down
besides this dumbbell flies and machine
fly successfully load the pets near that
stretched position there are two
variations of machine flies there are
subtle differences between them but I
don't anticipate they are meaningful
enough to impact growth some people
think this fly better stretches the pecs
because the arms are straighter but
remember since the pecs attached to the
upper arms not the lower arm the degree
of armb Bend doesn't really influence
the PEC stretch and assuming we're
roughly extending the upper arm compr
between the two movements the stretch is
not going to be too dissimilar so I
believe we can be confident all of these
variations can be highly
effective you might contend since cables
and machines additionally provide solid
tension near the contracted position
that makes them better than the dumbbell
variation but as you know we've
mentioned a few times here the present
literature implies extra tension at the
shortened position may not deliver extra
growth others might T due to the
inherent Freedom with cables and
dumbbells an even greater stretch is
available for those who can comfortably
get there assuming this deeper stretch
is beneficial for growth this could
indeed give them an Ever slight Edge now
there is widespread controversy around
the Deep stretch in flies and with wider
grip benching being injurious here's my
two Sense on this much of these ideas
stem from hypotheses and anecdotal
observations which suffer from multiple
potential Founders the scientific
literature at present has low quality
and minimal insight into injury risks
from various chest movements of course
absence of evidence is an Evidence of
absence so it would be misleading for me
to make any definitive conclusions until
we have higher Quality Investigations
for now I'd simply recommend performing
your exercises in a manner your
comfortable
with a handy feature with cables is its
height adjustability low cable flies
involve flying in upwards Direction the
direction we know likely preferentially
targets the upper PEC resultantly this
is yet another option available to
better train this region if you're not
feeling it with all the previously
mentioned compound movements and or you
just want to take the triceps out of the
equation low cable flies are a solid
solution there are also incline machine
flies and I believe we can presume they
should be highly effective incline
dumbbell flies can also be done but an
important point is since gravity pulls
the dumbbells down and you're at an
incline your shoulders are likely going
to be working over time to keep the
dumbbells out to the side for this
reason I suspect these aren't going to
be as potent for the upper pecks
regarding the lower pecks High cable
flies as well as decline dumbbell flies
better align the flying Direction with
that of the lower PEC fibers so both of
these might potentially preferentially
hit this region
the final isolation exercise we'll
discuss are the controversial freeway
pullovers specifically there are Fierce
debates about if this exercise is a
better chest or lat Builder what does
the current scientific literature
suggest pullovers involve shoulder
extension and freee pullovers are
virtually exclusively challenging at the
top position at this top position The
Lads have much lower Leverage compared
to lower elevation angles while the
middle and lower pecs likely have some
leverage for shoulder extension at these
higher elevation angles indeed
well-controlled electromyographic papers
find during isometric shoulder extension
contractions at different elevation
angles the lats display their lowest
activity at the highest elevation angle
while the pecs display fairly good
activity at this region moreover
recordings directly from a barbell
pullover find the
particularly the middle and lower
regions display higher activity than the
lats however I'm not completely sold
this means the lats are minimally
stimulated I detailed why in our
Ultimate Guide to lat hypertrophy but
I'll mention the key points here
although the pecs are stretched in the
overhead position the lats are also
stretched quite well we have research
finding even if a muscle has lower
leverage and displays reduced activity
the muscle can still will grow well
provided it's at a longer length for
example the gluteus maximus is
lengthened more with deeper squats but
they have lower leverage and activity in
this position yet we have research
comparing 90° to 140° knee flexion
squats and the 140° deeper squats grew
the gluteus maximus quite a bit more so
in total I'd say there's evidence that
both the lats and pecs may be trained
fairly well with free pullovers now some
people report feeling it more in their
lats instead of the chest while others
report the inverse ultimately what we
need and what I'm looking forward to is
research directly measuring lat and pet
growth after free pullovers I guess it's
not implausible that it could differ
between people but for now since we have
some data suggesting the pecs display
Fair activity you could try this
exercise out if it appeals to you and
examine your
perception so we detailed a ton of
information and I understand it can be
tricky and very challenging to construct
your own muscle building program but the
alpha progression app which is
essentially your personal clever muscle
building assistant in the palm of your
hand can easily help you with hundreds
of thousands of downloads thousands of
reviews speak to its unmatched quality
other apps truly generate garbage
programs but this app intelligently gets
you closer to your dream physique
through gener ating an evidence-based
program 100% customizable to your needs
simply let it know all about you your
experience level the equipment you have
how often and how long you can train for
and if you want to focus or neglect
certain muscles this can all take less
than a minute and you can still make
further edits if you like the app has
extra impressive features during
workouts the apps algorithm carefully
suggests how you may Progressive
overload to help p push you to the next
level aesthetic graphs automatically
display your long-term progress and
there is a huge exercise database of all
the best muscle building exercises with
crisp videos and instructions behind
many of the exercises detailed in this
video try out every single one of the
premium features to your heart's desire
during a free twoe trial through the
link in the comments and description if
you like it and choose to go beyond the
link cuts the price of a subscription
by2 % I truly believe the app is
exceptional and I hope you'll enjoy it
too to ensure this video details every
single relevant study relating to PEC
hypertrophy there is one final study
that needs to be mentioned 47 previously
untrained men trained either the incline
bench press only flat bench press only
or a combination of both with these
variables after training once per week
for 8 weeks the incline bench press
group tended to see the best upper
middle and lower PCT less major growth
compared to the other groups in other
words just training an incline bench
press led to the best results with flat
bench pressing or even a combination of
both leading to inferior results you may
be thinking what on Earth doesn't this
go against much of what was described in
the rest of this video this is indeed
true you may also be thinking since this
paper Direct measured pet growth we
should consider it as high quality
evidence this is typically true but upon
scrutinizing this paper further there's
reason to be skeptical the pet growth
seen in this paper was simply outrageous
the incline group increased their PEC
thickness by 54 to 62% and the other
group still saw more than 40% growth for
some regions in fact if we scale to
average gains per workout we find that
PC side has increased by 4.6% each
workout imagine that your pecs
increasing nearly 5% after each training
session and remember this is the average
in the study we're not talking about an
outlier subject if we compare the
average growth in this study to the rest
of the research that has measured PEC
hypertrophy we can see just how striking
the difference is also remember this
study just involved eight training
sessions while the rest of the research
involved an average average of 33
training sessions this only further
makes things more perplexing so what
gives although this is speculative I
believe the strongest explanation is the
hypertrophy measurements might just have
been faulty 47 subjects completed the
study the text implies the researcher
should have measured the gains of all 47
subjects but just 30 subjects actually
made up the hyper measurements so 17
measurements were missing the
researchers did not explain why but it's
entirely possible errors were made with
these 17 measurements perhaps suggesting
the researchers poorly conducted the
hyper measurements with the ultrasound
Machinery if this is all true there
could still be something dubious with a
30 measurements perhaps explaining these
abnormally astonishing amounts of
hypertrophy in addition to these
confusing gains we can't ignore the fact
these results conflict with multiple
other papers the study did find upper
pet growth was better with the incline
which is what we'd expect but the fact
that incline group grew the middle and
lowc more conflicts with the findings of
reduced middle and lower activity with
an incline we know this is EMG data but
there are multiple of them and
well-controlled electromyographic data
also finds the middle PEX display lower
activity when force is directed
obliquely upwards compared to
horizontally finally we also have this
paper that found that the incline bench
press produced a lower midp pump to the
flat bench press again the intracellular
events associated with the pump do not
seem to strongly promote hypertrophy but
when potential confounders are
controlled the pump may be an indirect
insight into the tension seen by a
muscle region although this paper also
found the upper Peck pump was similar
between the flat and incline bench press
which I'd say is somewhat of an odd
finding as well nevertheless for all
these reasons I don't believe we can
derive recommendations from this
[Music]
study before summarizing things what
about targeting the inner and outer pecs
at the time of constructing this video
there's no research comparing inner and
outer region growth between different
PEC exercises so this is why we don't
have a section on this however I don't
anticipate this is a major problem based
on the advice in this video the peex
will probably grow well across its
length in fact one study alludes to this
trained individuals perform the flat and
inclined barbell bench press and we've
alluded to how this is a perfectly fine
and simple combination for pet growth
one group actually held a stretch
between sets while another rested
passively the stretch between sets
didn't enhance gains as both groups saw
similar growth but the key Point here is
the magnitude of growth at the middle
and outer portions was pretty much
identical the researchers didn't measure
the innermost region but I'd be
surprised if it didn't grow at least
fairly I will say if any future research
does come along about the inner and
outer regions I'll be sure to update you
all until then it's not worth worrying
about on to the summary there is no
Musto or best PEC exercise rather
there's evidence a ton of exercises can
be highly effective there's also so no
one programming style that's unanimously
the best instead there are multiple
paths you could take specifically we've
seen it likely substantial PEC
hypertrophy can be attained purely
through training with compound exercises
but we know there are reasons for adding
isolation PEC exercises when exploring
compound exercises horizontal presses
are excellent for the pecs and we have
research suggesting all these variations
can probably be similarly effective
although there are five reasons you
might consider and one of them is that
the deeper PEC stretch from dumbbells a
cambered bar and deficit push-ups might
make them slightly better the current
literature seems to imply these
horizontal presses likely grow the
middle and lower pecs very well but the
upper PEX somewhat less to train the
upper PEX more all of these are
potentially great options in the limited
data comparing some of these there are
nonsignificant differences in Upper Peck
activity and as for the lower PCS
although dedicated training for this
region is probably not essential here
are potential options available to you
if you would like to train this region
more finally here are isolation PEC
options on the table and we described
how all of these are potentially largely
similarly effective if you're after
isolation options to better Target the
upper PEC these are some great potential
options and if you're after isolation
options to better Target the lower PEX
these are some great potential
options thank you for watching feel free
to check out the alpha progression app
or our recent deep dive into building
the LS