when it comes to developing the arms we
all know about the biceps and triceps
but I'd say there's an underrated muscle
hiding beneath the biceps that is the
brachialis located at the lower upper
arm region a well-developed brachialis
creates a distinct separation between
the biceps and triceps and in theory
groan the brachioli should push out the
biceps thereby enhancing the arm size
the brachiolis is part of the elbow
flexors alongside the biceps and
brachioradialis fascinatingly though the
biceps is the largest elbow flexor the
brachialis isn't far off the
brachioradialis makes up a smaller part
if the goal is to optimize arm
hypertrophy suffice to say the
brachialis cannot be forgotten about in
this video we're going to be uncovering
some training tips related to developing
the brachialis welcome to the house of
hypertrophy
[Music]
foreign
the brachiolis is a pure Alpha flexor so
it's certainly going to be activated in
all types of curling exercises but what
sort of brachialis development might we
experience from various curling
exercises this classic Canadian analysis
found after subjects trained machine
preacher curls with an underhand grip
the biceps increase in cross-sectional
area by 8.3 percent while the brachialis
increased in cross-sectional area by an
impressive 37.6 percent so these
findings May imply the brachialis
experiences relatively greater
hypertrophy than the biceps from
underhand preacher curls interestingly
this was the only paper I could find
measuring brachiolis hypertrophy
directly during my deep search so we
can't confidently say the brachialis
grows more than the biceps from curling
exercises in all circumstances
fortunately though other indirect
research still delivers valuable
insights this analysis found after
subjects trained dumbbell underhand
preacher curls the brachialis
experienced a similar pump to the biceps
the pump is a temporary increase in
muscle size due to fluid accumulation as
we've dissected in depth previously at
the house of hypertrophy the pump does
not appear to be a strong cause of
muscle growth however with a given
exercise the muscle regions that
experience the greatest pump might end
up seeing the greatest hypertrophy if so
somewhat contrary to the other paper
this data may suggest the brachiality
sees a comparable stimulus to the biceps
from underhand preacher curls
finally we have this recent Spanish
paper that compared underhand Dumbo
prejecosa underhand incline curls the
researchers looked at elbow flexor
growth across three regions the
measurements comprise both the biceps
and brachiolis so no distinction between
them was made nevertheless growth across
the three regions tended to be better
with a preacher curls in a prior video I
described how this data might indicate
preacher codes to be a better biceps
Builder compared to incline curls I
believe this speculation still holds in
the absence of other data but as the
measurement included the brachiolis I
think this muscle may have contributed
to some of the greater gains seen from
the preacher curls notice how the
difference in gains between preacher and
incline curse was particularly notable
at a 70 region the authors noted that in
this area the thickness of the
brachialis was around twice the
thickness at the 50 region thus though
we can't be certain perhaps a decent
chunk of the growth experienced at the
70 region by the preacher curls is
attributable to the brachi Alice
some may be thinking if true why did
preacher course do a better job than
incline curls we'll address this very
soon but taking all these anodized
papers together although it's not
crystal clear as to what precise
magnitude of stimulus the breakouts
experiences from curling exercises I
would descriptively say the brachialis
is going to grow at least well
these findings make sense throughout
elbow flexion The brachialis's Leverage
is not far off the biceps leverage
whatsoever in case you're unaware
leverage refers to the muscle's moment
arm which is the perpendicular distance
between the muscles line of force and
the center of the joint it moves a
longer moment our means a muscle has
greater leverage and ability to move the
joint and a few papers indicate that
Leverage is one important factor in how
the central nervous system decides what
muscles to activate in an exercise thus
this data tells us we should expect the
brachialis like the biceps to be trained
quite effectively with all curling
exercises
[Music]
we just saw this Spanish paper
potentially indicating the brachialis
may have grown more with preacher
compared to incline curls moreover
recall the Canadian paper finding
substantial brachios approach for used
machine preacher curls and their
analysis finding a similar pump between
the brachialis and biceps use dumbbell
preacher curls
preacher curls are most challenging near
the start of the curl where the biceps
and brachialis are at a longer muscle
length conversely other curling
exercises like incline curls and
standard curls are more challenging when
the biceps and brachialis are at a
neutral to shorten the length if you've
been following the house of hypertrophy
for a while you will know emerging
Research indicates challenging muscles
at a more length and position produces
more muscle growth preacher curls aren't
the only way to challenge the muscles at
longer lengths face away cable curls and
other specialized machines can
accomplish this based on what we've
detailed I would rank these curling
exercises that challenge the muscles at
longer lengths as more effective for
growing the brachialis than curling
exercises that don't this is not to be
mistaken for believing that standard
curls incline curls or other curls that
aren't most challenging at longer
lengths are useless although the current
scientific evidence consistently
observes more hypertrophy for more
length and training training at neutral
to shorten length still elicits
measurable growth so know that if you do
not wish to perform curls most
challenging the lens it's not the end of
the world
[Music]
there is one factor that may equalize
the effects of all types of curling
exercises for developing the brachialis
that affects it is range of motion so
far there have been three studies
finding a partial range of motion at
long muscle lengths produce the overall
more hypertrophy than a full range of
motion we have additional data
demonstrating that when comparing
partial range of motion at long muscle
links to short muscle lengths the former
better builds muscle for example this
Japanese paper compared partial preacher
codes at the long to short length an
elbow Flex a growth across three regions
was Superior for the long lengths this
elbow Flex a measurement comprised both
the biceps and brachiolis although we
can't be certain I think it's quite
likely the brachiolis was involved in
that great hypertrophy what all this
information May imply is that regardless
of the curling exercise you've selected
performing a partial range of motion at
long lengths since it will effectively
challenge the brachialis at longer
lengths renders all types of curls as
highly and similarly effect before
brachialis hypertrophy if you're feeling
experimental You may wish to try these
out in your training another option is
integrated partials where you alternate
between a full range of motion
repetition and a partial rep at longer
lengths a final option is with exercises
most challenging at the mid to shortened
position like standard and incline curls
you could perform reps two or very close
to failure with a full range of motion
and then squeeze out extra partial reps
at longer lengths if you're not feeling
experimental and wish to stick with a
full range of motion then you may wish
to use the previous rankings as guidance
if you're curious about deeper guidance
on the process of training our high
quality partner Alpha progression can
help you create track and evolve your
hypertrophy and or strength training
with multiple valuable features it
serves all experience levels they're
incredibly flexible generator can tailor
a program to your desires in less than
three minutes specify the equipment you
have how often and long you want to
train for and if you want to focus or
neglect certain muscles there are over a
quadrillion input combinations on which
your plan is based and the training
philosophy is derived from meta-analyzes
and systematic reviews once the workout
is generated you can't even deploy
supersets or drop sets Graphics unveil
your long-term progress from your
strength progression the consistency of
workouts and even the number of sets
performed per muscle there is a database
with over 550 exercises scrolling
through you may discover exercise
variations you never knew existed the
link in the comments and description
gives you two weeks free of all the
app's premium features and if you like
it and go beyond you'll get 20 off a
subscription we'll never promote trash
at the house of hypertrophy I sincerely
believe the app is nothing short of
exceptional the apps reviews Echo this
[Music]
the grip you use on curves likely has an
effect on which alperflex and muscle is
slightly biased we know the biceps has
great leverage for help reflection but
it's leverage for health reflection is
greatest when using an underhand grip
compared to using a neutral or overhand
grip indeed the best Control Data
indicates the bicep sees higher activity
with an underhand compared to an
overhand grip on the other hand the
breaker list is leveraged for helper
flexion is unimpacted by grip and since
the biceps activity is likely lower with
a neutral and overhand grip this likely
increases the involvement of the
brachialis indeed the brachialis has
been documented to be better activated
with an overhand grip unfortunately
there isn't any research directly
comparing foreign activity between a
neutral and overhand grip so we don't
know if any meaningful differences exist
between them regardless based on the
info we've dissected if the aim is to
maximize brachialis development from
Kohl's then a neutral or overhand grip
should be used it's important to
emphasize this doesn't mean underhand
grip curves are useless for the
brachialis many of the studies evaluated
in this video such as the classic
Canadian paper finding substantial
brachialis hypertrophy used in underhand
grip so if you're not overly concerned
about maximizing and getting every ounce
of lost muscle mass from the brachialis
I don't believe neutral or overhand grip
curls are essential some may be
wondering about the brachial radiolis we
will dissect the scientific literature
surrounding this muscle in a future
video
please
before summarizing things it's
interesting to know that although the
brachialis is traditionally considered
to be one head some papers have found
some individuals possess more than a
single head there are individuals out
there with two three four or even five
or more brachialis heads I don't
anticipate any of this changes the
recommendations presented in the video
the limited data available suggests in
individuals with two heads the Deep head
initiates elbow flexion while The
Superficial head provides power once the
elbow is flexed so in other words both
heads are going to be involved in the
overall process of ELP reflection
nonetheless here are the summary points
feel free to check out our detailed
video on what actually stimulates
hypertrophy