welcome to the house of hypertrophy in
the muscle and strength building worlds
a good number of misconceptions exist I
would argue there are some important
misunderstandings with CNS fatigue that
is central nervous system fatigue it is
a term thrown about quite a bit for
example you may hear someone say my CNS
is fried
but are the common beliefs surrounding
CNS fatigue supported by the scientific
literature is CNS fatigue always present
in the days after training do heavier
loads always produce more seen as
fatigue than lighter loads is the
deadlift more taxing on the CNS does
training to failure always produce more
CNS fatigue is hand grip strength truly
a valid measure of CNS fatigue and do
you always experience the same level of
CNS fatigue after workouts let's Dive In
foreign
subjectively tied is what some feel CNS
fatigue is strictly speaking this isn't
a pinpoint accurate description of CNS
fatigue CNS fatigue refers to a specific
event and it is also quantifiable
remember muscles generate Force thanks
to the electrical signals they receive
from their CNS that's the brain and
spinal cord CNS fatigue specifically
refers to reduced electrical drive from
the CNS to the muscle which reduces the
number of muscle fibers that are
activated and all the firing rates of a
group of muscle fibers in other words
the muscle cannot produce as much force
researchers can quantify CNS fatigue in
different ways most commonly by looking
at voluntary activation voluntary
activation refers to how much of a
muscle's force producing potential a
person's nervous system can access after
exercise if voluntary activation is
reduced this means the nervous system
has lost some ability to access the
muscle's force producing potential and
is believed to indicate CNS fatigue is
present more details about voluntary
activation can be found in the
description nonetheless there is another
way researchers May infer CNS fatigue
CNS fatigue can reduce the force of
muscles we haven't directly trained say
you only trained your right bicep after
if your left bicep has also lost some
strength this may indirectly infer CNS
fatigue is present before moving on to
the next section it's just worth knowing
CNS fatigue isn't the only thing that
reduces muscle performance peripheral
fatigue does too peripheral fatigue
refers to changes inside of the muscle
that lowers its Force
[Music]
some Studies have failed to observe CNS
fatigue days after lifting such as these
two studies which were done on trained
individuals involving a range of
compound exercise performed mainly for
four sets each with heavier loads in the
four to six rep range CNS fatigue wasn't
present 24 or 48 hours after but we do
have quite a few other studies finding
CNS fatigue days after lifting such as
these two studies involving training the
back score with 10 sets in the 5 to 10
rep range they also involved trained
individuals although one of the papers
involved a subset of untrained folks too
CNS fatigue was present for up to 48 to
72 hours after
other studies involving higher volume
maximal eccentric training which is
where you maximally load the lowering
portion of an exercise through
specialized equipment produce CNS
fatigue that persists for a few days
after since training volume that is set
numbers appear to be the thing that
differed the most between the data
finding CNS fatigue and not this data
would suggest more volume is associated
with greater CNS fatigue something I'm
sure is unsurprising to many
[Music]
we've previously seen at the house of
hypertrophy that reps between 6 and 35
can be similarly effective for building
muscle provided reps are performed two
or very close to failure but it's
commonly thought heavier loads generate
greater CNS fatigue but the research
actually fails to support this this
study found when training dumbbell curls
there was no significant difference in
the CNS fatigue produced immediately
after training with either 5 10 or 20
repetitions two or very close to failure
two other papers find with a leg
extension with reps two are very close
to failure CNS fatigue measured
immediately afterward tended to be
greater with a 40 load compared to an 80
load in fact it seems that the longer
the contraction duration the more CNS
fatigue immediately produced this study
found more CNS fatigue immediately after
holding a 20 strength contraction for 13
minutes compared to holding an 80
strength contraction for 30 seconds
another study found with a hand and
muscle holding a 30 strength contraction
that lasted for around 400 seconds
produced more CNS fatigue immediately
after compared to holding 45 60 and 75
strength contractions that lasted for
these durations longer duration aerobic
training has also been documented to
generate more CNS fatigue immediately
after
Savvy viewers may be thinking I've only
presented the CNS fatigue measured
immediately after the contraction but
what about in the days after training
when looking at fatigue overall so we're
not looking at CNS fatigue just yet it
seems lighter lows and thus higher reps
are more fatiguing the results of this
study find slightly worse recovery of
muscle performance as you progress from
around 4 to 12 reps moreover there was
incrementally more damage as you
progress to the higher reps another
study finds when training a leg
extension with reps to failure recovery
in the days after was slower when
training with a light 30 load compared
to a heavier 80 load it does appear CNS
fatigue contributes to the greater
fatigue from lighter loads this study
had subjects trained one of their legs
with either a lighter 40 or heavier 80
load on the leg extension separated by a
week reps were taken to failure and as
expected recovery was slower after
training with a 40 load importantly a
decrease in strength of the opposite leg
was seen immediately and after 24 hours
after training with a 40 load suggesting
CNS fatigue since we know CNS fatigue
can reduce the force of muscles not
directly trained when training with the
80 load there was no decrease in the
opposite leg strength
so lighter loads and thus higher reps
produce more fatigue but does this
really matter it depends on which angle
you look at this if you're trying to
minimize neuromuscular fatigue and
maximize stimulus reps on the Lower Side
better achieve this but the thing is
your body can handle and adapt to
fatigue if the fatigue from reps up to
35 was counterproductive for building
muscle we'd expect it to compromise
muscle growth but the fact research
finds reps up to 35 produced Sim
hypertrophy tells us the fatigue
generated from lighter loads isn't
enough to kill gains this even holds
true in the number of sets you perform
is in the moderate to high range for
example this study from New York had
trained subjects trained these exercises
for three sets each three times per week
for eight weeks this resulted in them
performing around 18 weekly sets for the
quads directly and 18 weekly sets for
the biceps and triceps indirectly one
group trained to each set to failure in
the 8 to 12 rep range while another
group trained each set to failure in the
25 to 35 rep range ultimately growth of
the elper flexors triceps and quads were
similar between both groups as we'll see
later your body has the capacity to
speed up recovery
[Music]
deadlifts are said to be one of the most
fatiguing exercises does the research
support this these researchers had 10
trained men train the deadlift and squat
on different occasions for eight sets of
two reps with a 95 One Rate Max load
measures of CNS fatigue were similar
between both exercises 5 and 30 minutes
after training
there are two important considerations
CNS fatigue was Quantified by looking at
voluntary activation of the quads this
isn't an inherent problem since we know
CNS fatigue can have a systemic effect
but I think it would have been more
ideal for the researchers to look at an
overlapping muscle between the two
movements such as the glute Max secondly
CNS fatigue was just measured 5 and 30
minutes after the session what about in
the days after
fortunately another paper helps us out
12 trained men perform the deadlift
bexquat and bench press on different
occasions with each movement they
performed four sets of reps to failure
with an 80 one rep max load none of the
measurements taken indicated the
deadlift was more fatiguing than the
other exercises measures of muscle
swelling stiffness soreness performance
and damage was quite comparable between
all three exercises in the days after
training now this study didn't strictly
measure CNS fatigue but many people's
assumption is the deadlift is overall
more fatiguing and this study fails to
support that having said this another
study had 10 recreationally trained men
perform these exercises including the
deadlift for two sets each subjects
repeated this exact workout 24 and 48
hours after to quantify their
performance recovery the deadlift was
largely the exercise that had the lowest
recovery indicating this movement may be
more fatiguing but it was far from being
substantially or fatiguing so what do we
make of all this data well two out of
three fail to support the notion that
deadlift is more fatiguing in my eyes
the second study is probably one of the
better designed ones since it involved
quite well-trained lifters and examined
a range of fatigue measurements not just
one
This research is certainly surprising
because it's so commonly believed that
deadlift is more fatiguing I think there
could be a range of plausible reasons as
to why the deadlift is perceived as
being more fatiguing feel free to pause
and read them if you like but here's the
thing I don't believe we should fully
discount the anecdotes just yet although
the overall evidence currently fails to
support the idea dead deadlifts are more
fatiguing two studies aren't super
strong proof so I think some further
research should help clarify things for
now I just thought it'd be interesting
to share this current research and the
possibility of the deadlift might not
truly be more fatiguing
[Music]
training to failure undeniably produces
overall more fatigue compared to not
training to failure multiple studies
established this for example a recent
study found when trained individuals
perform the bench press for six sets
recovery was slower after training to
failure compared to stopping around one
or three reps away from failure it may
be automatic to assume this means CNS
fatigue is greater with failure training
and indeed this was my default
assumption fascinatingly there seems to
be only one study looking at CNS fatigue
from training to failure these
researchers had trained men with at
least one year of experience performed
six sets on the back squat using a 10
repetition maximum load on one occasion
all sets were performed to failure while
on another occasion they only performed
five reps per set muscle damage was
higher after the failure training
session but CNS fatigue both within the
training session and then the days after
was surprisingly similar between both
the failure and non-failure training
sessions thus this data suggests the
greater fatigue from training to failure
may not be due to more CNS fatigue but
rather due to peripheral fatigue and
Associated muscle damage granted this is
only one study so consider it
preliminary we shall see if future
studies replicate it nonetheless I would
like to discuss the idea of failure
training being more overall fatiguing
does it matter the overall literature
clearly shows getting close to failure
is needed to optimize the stimulus of a
set generally stopping around zero to
three reps away from failure seems to
produce similar muscle growth to
training to failure I know a recent
meta-aggression made the rounds on
social media with some influences saying
their regression proves training to
failure is superior for building muscle
but we've previously seen this
regression had limitations meaning it
doesn't prove training to failure is
superior indirect equations and
estimates were used to infer how far
from failure the non-failure training
groups were and these were likely not
super accurate high quality individual
studies find similar hypertrophy between
training into failure and stopping
around three to zero reps from failure
and arguably a more controlled
meta-analysis found this relationship
between proximity to failure and muscle
growth considering all this information
if the goal is to minimize fatigue while
maximizing the stimulus not training to
failure beta achieves this but similar
to the discussion with lower versus
higher reps the fatigue from training to
failure isn't intrinsically a concern
since we know training to failure
largely does not provide worse muscle
growth compared to stopping 0-3 reps
from failure but there still are some
considerations if you're performing
additional cardiovascular training and
or Sprint training preliminary data
indicates muscle and strength
adaptations may be better when not
training to failure moreover although
it's not consistently established in the
literature older individuals may have a
harder time recovering so non-failure
training may be generally preferable
finally if your outside lifestyle isn't
conducive to optimize recovery perhaps
you're under a lot of stress sleeping
poorly or cutting non-failure training
may be the best option in these
conditions
are there any practical methods you can
use to detect if Cena's fatigue is
present some say measuring your hand
grip strength can do this but at least
two studies find hand grip strength
fails to correlate with CNS fatigue
perhaps because the muscles of the hands
are too small to be sensitive to CNS
fatigue measuring your performance on
explosive movements such as a vertical
jump might be better why remember CNS
fatigue involves reduced muscle fiber
Recruitment and this will largely be a
reduction in fast twitch muscle fiber
recruitment since explosive movements
are mainly powered by those fast twitch
fibers a reduction in performance on
these could reflect the presence of CNS
fatigue as far as I know no Studies have
properly assessed this the closest thing
I could find is this study finding after
a workout the reduction in vertical jump
height did correlate with a reduction in
back squat performance but not with
other exercises the correlations were
based on data between different people
so future research is required to more
precisely answer the question of whether
for a given person if a greater vertical
jump height reduction strongly
correlates with CNS fatigue and the
performance loss on various exercises
what about your own feelings about how
fatigued you are to my knowledge there's
no data looking at the association
between subjective fatigue and CNS
fatigue but with overall fatigue it
might actually be a decent indicator one
study finds after lifting weights a
strong correlation between how
subjectively fatigued they felt and
their squat performance another one
finds objective fatigue has some
correlation to the extent of muscle
damage yet there are some other papers
finding poorer associations between
subjective fatigue and lifting
performance
so summarizing this section hand grip
strength isn't strongly informative of
CNS fatigue explosive movements could
better infer CNS fatigue and subjective
perception may not be a terrible
indicator of overall neuromuscular
fatigue but an interesting question is
do you even need to worry about
measuring fatigue all laboriously
considering it
foreign
there's nothing wrong with tracking and
being analytical about fatigue if you
desire but I don't believe it's
essential many people have made
tremendous gains without meticulously
tracking fatigue at the end of the day
you'll know if you're consistently
running into recovery programs through
performance stagnation regression and
perhaps unforeseen subjective feelings
adjustments can then be made off of this
also as hinted throughout recovery tends
to Quicken as you accustom yourself to a
training program thanks to a range of
adaptations your body produces called
the repeated bowel effect and the house
of hypertrophy we've previously seen
this fascinating study out of Greece
that had untrained subjects train their
quads with maximal eccentric early
contractions on a specialized piece of
equipment for 5 sets of 15 repetitions
once a week for 10 weeks maximal
eccentric contractions evoke substantial
fatigue and damage the data demonstrates
this after the training in week 1
substantial damage soreness
stiffness
and strength loss occurred for at least
five days after the session however as
the weeks progressed the magnitude of
damage soon as stiffness and strength
loss after training progressively
reduced by the 10th a week virtually
full strength recovery occurred within a
day or two thus fatigue likely including
CNS fatigue can be reduced having said
all this some people have suggested that
trained individuals do not see lower CNS
fatigue based on this study which is one
of the papers mentioned near the start
of the video These researchers had young
trained men middle-aged trained men and
middle-aged untrained men perform 10
sets of 10 reps on the barbell back
squat with a 60 one rep max load for all
subjects CNS fatigue was present in the
days after if we focus on a middle-aged
subjects we can see the magnitude of CNS
fatigue was fairly similar between both
the trained and untrained subjects
therefore some have used this as
evidence that trained individuals do not
experience faster CNS recovery however a
key consideration of this study is
somehow the untrained middle-aged men
were pretty strong their backswatch
strength wasn't far of the trained
middle-aged men and their fat-free mess
was actually greater moreover remember
all subjects performed 10 sets of 10 on
the back squats and chances are of the
trained individuals were not
consistently training with this program
so being unaccustomed to the training
probably highly contributed to CNS
fatigue indeed we have research
indicating after a second workout some
measures of CNS fatigue recover faster
on top of this we call the stay from
Greece observed fatigue lasting for
numerous days initially they didn't
measure CNS fatigue directly but we've
had previous studies finding CNS fatigue
can persist onwards of three days after
maximal eccentric training thus since
the Greek study found subjects were
virtually fully recovered within a day
or two by the end of the study logically
a reduction in CNS fatigue is in play
here too also recall earlier we saw that
two specific studies failed to find CNS
fatigue in the days after training the
subjects of these studies were quite
trained and I think this probably played
an important part in the notes finally
there's this fascinating study that
recruited 13 trained men with these
average tenerate max strength levels and
ffmi they trained this program every day
for four days each set was performed
with repetitions up to a 99.5 rpe
meaning they would have been stopping
around to one rep short of failure they
were performing four hard sets for the
chest and four hard sets for the quads
each session across the four days bench
press performance remained the same the
same applied to back squads
therefore these trained individuals were
essentially recovering their performance
within 24 hours between sessions the
point isn't that you should do this
precise training rather it's to
demonstrate the recovery capacity that's
possible to develop now it's worth
mentioning individual differences do
exist returning to the Greek study the
researchers provided the individual data
virtually all individuals aligned with
their average results seeing much less
fatigue from training across the 10
weeks yet there were seemingly around
two to four individuals who although saw
improvements across the 10 weeks still
experienced fairly notable fatigue after
training in the 10th week thus some
individuals fail to develop the repeated
bow effect as well as others
another potentially interesting point is
that if we return to the paper which had
subjects trained this program daily for
four days the researchers noted the
strongest individuals whose bench press
10 rep max was 1.25 times their body
weight failed to replicate their
performance from the first day
suggesting their recovery was slightly
worse this may Point towards the notion
that there's a threshold of strength
level where if you pass it it does make
recovery harder from training I'll be
curious to see if future research
corroborates this even so I think for
the most part we can say recovery
largely improves as you accustom
yourself to a training program
if you're searching for additional ideas
about programming for muscle hypertrophy
the alpha progression app can help it
has an exceptionally flexible custom
workout generator that uses trading
variables based on meta-analities and
reviews from the scientific literature
specify your training experience the
equipment you have and how often and how
long you want to train for you can still
individualize things further by editing
things to your preference the app also
provides neat graphs displaying your
long-term progression and there's a
database of 550 exercises the link in
the comments and description allows you
to try everything on the app entirely
for free for two weeks and if you like
it and go beyond the link gives you 20
off a subscription we don't just partner
with anyone at the house of hypertrophy
so rest assured the app is great
[Music]
let us recap the main points CNS fatigue
refers to reduced electrical drive from
the CNS the brain and spinal cord to the
muscle resulting in reduced muscle Force
production interestingly some Studies
have failed to observe seen as fatigue
in the days after lifting yet other
Studies have found it and unsurprisingly
higher volumes that's more sets per
exercise per session seems to produce
greater CNS fatigue contrary to popular
belief lighter loads and thus higher
reps actually appear to produce greater
CNS fatigue both within the training
session and the ensuing hours compared
to heavier loads and thus lower reps the
majority of the current evidence fails
to support the notion that deadlift is
more fatiguing compared to other
exercises but more research is needed to
more confidently draw conclusions of
course training to failure produces
overall more fatigue compared to not
training to failure but preliminary data
indicates this greater overall fatigue
may not be due to Greater CNS fatigue
rather muscle damage in so far as
tracking CNS fatigue hand grip strength
doesn't appear to be a valid indicator
my speculation is that explosive
movements such as vertical jump
performance may be a better indicator of
CNS fatigue but I don't think it's
essential to be overly meticulous about
tracking fatigue if you ever run into
recovery problems it should become
apparent in one way or another
performance stagnation regression and or
subjective perception your recovery
durations tend to become faster as you
accustom yourself to a training program
this likely involves lower CNS fatigue
how can we effectively develop the side
delts feel free to check out our video
on the topic