here's why you should overhead press Dr
pack here the original doctor from
doville USA real place um currently
trying to recreate the fluff situation
on top of my head but I'm unable to do
so so no fluff it stole the show from
the last batch of videos what the are
you looking at which shows what content
with the level of content that I'm
producing if a piece of fluff on my head
is able to steal the show
then ah I don't know Silver Linings am I
right here's why you should overhead
press though and this yeah it's not one
of those late to the party videos uh cuz
the overhead press was a bit of a thing
I am a huge fan of the overhead press I
do not bench and here's the citation for
my chest the side camera as well I have
been blessed with solid chest genetics
and I obviously train my chest through
other exercises but my upper body
exercise of choice
is the overhead
press and here's why you should do it as
well so this is one of those videos
where I tell you hey you should do
whatever you like and if you like the
overhead press do it although in many
cases it may be suboptimal as far as
shoulder growth goes and there may be
better choices um especially if you're
doing a bunch of pressing that is
targeting your front belts it is totally
fine to want to include some some of
some less optimal exercises in your
program you're still engaging in
resistance training you're still not
missing out on much and the amount of
evidence we have on including the
overhead press on a program versus not
including it and still doing your side
laterals and whatever else upper body
work you're doing I have the literature
right here in the form of a book that is
called the year of the runways and has
nothing to do with what I just said
because there's no research looking at
whether adding one exercise to your
program is going to massively impact
your gains and spoiler alert is likely
not going to do anything especially for
well not especially for the majority of
people obviously if you're pressed for
time and you're a powerlifter or a
bodybuilder or you're somebody who wants
to maximize growth and you have only a
few specific sessions that you can
attend to yes doing other exercises that
are just fun probably not the best use
of your time however you'd still see
gains from those exercises in theory
they could be suboptimal meaning that
you could be missing out on some growth
on some muscle groups by in my opinion
not an insane amount so it's totally
fine to want to it's totally fine to
overhead press and this is the example I
chose cuz that's my favorite upper body
exercise although it is not optimal and
on paper you know making bench my
primary exercise could be and pushing
that would be more acceptable in in
certain circles uh than the overhead
press but the idea that I'm now missing
out on a bunch of growth or wasting my
time is just silly yes hypothetically uh
other exercises are better for side delt
growth than the overhead press but
adding a few sets of overhead press on
top of your regular training if you care
about maximizing side lateral growth or
whatever totally fine same goes with
every other exercise if you want to have
fun in the gym have fun in the gym if
you're only having fun in the gym you're
still going to make gains sure if you're
the guy that's now doing only overhead
pressing no other push exercise
whatsoever no direct tricep work no
direct delt work sure okay that's an
extreme scenario but if you're just the
average lifter who hey loves doing the
overhead press or some form of cheat row
and also does the rest of their workout
even if you miss out on a couple of sets
here and there because you've spent some
of your Energy overhead pressing or
doing some other exercise that's fine
you are still going to make a ton of
gains and we are literally splitting
hairs when overly losing our minds about
exercise selection make sure that your
exercise selection is in accordance to
your goals but if having fun and
enjoying yourself in the gym is part of
your goals then by all means have fun
now you have to wait
and sort of prioritize things based on
your goal so if like your main goal is
to absolutely maximize growth and then
have fun obviously you can still do
suboptimal exercises but make sure to
include them appropriately in your
training program and to not prioritize
them but if you're like me who you know
you want to be jacked you want to be
wide you want to be bigger than life and
uh at the same time you like certain
lifts because you just like how they
feel you can just throw those on top
prioritize them because you really enjoy
them except that they're not ideal for
some muscle groups throw in that extra
work for those muscle groups like I
personally have started doing more and
more lateral raises which are very time
efficient and don't really feel like
much work especially after overhead
pressing and call it a day it's totally
fine get out of your own head when it
comes to exercise selection and the idea
that if you're doing some exercise that
is not the thing right now on social
media that you're losing games yes in
theory you may be missing out on those
few extra percentage points but engaging
in progressive resistance training over
time and doing a plethora of exercises
is what will get you jacked not whether
you did lateral raises uh for eight sets
versus six sets for those few months
where you also wanted to overhead press
get in the gym have fun lift stuff stop
overly worrying about minute details
unless unless and this is the disclaimer
worrying about my n Det details and
geeking out and absolutely optimizing is
the way you have fun I have clients who
have straight up told me I don't care as
my friend told would say I don't care
about having fun I want to go in do the
most optimal training program on paper
pretend my life depends on gaining as
much muscle as possible let's make every
educated bet even if some things are
mostly based on speculation and that's
all I care about I don't want to have
fun I don't want to do fun movements I
don't have fun with lifting weights I
just want to go from point A to point B
if you're that person by all means and
if you're the person that has Fun by
optimizing Again by all means
everybody's welcome here this is your
safe space on the internet so therefore
subscribe hit the notification icon hit
the Bell hit your screen and I made that
joke on the previous video or a future
video If it hasn't been released out but
I will see you guys next time thank you
for watching again
[Music]
peace