hey guys dr. Mike is until here back for
the last video number four for the
template guide this one about support
and how to get support for your template
experience cool thing is you probably
won't need that much support but it's
totally okay if you do the reason you
probably need is the template it's super
self explanatory super simple super
straight at the point and you have a ton
of support right at your fingertips with
other documents you got with your
templates so you got your template in
that actual PDF file is the quick tips
guide which you should for sure read
very very soon before you start
everything and in addition to that
you've got two other documents you've
got the how-to guide which tells you how
to run the templates and troubleshoots a
little bit and you got the detailed
frequently asked questions guide between
all of those materials you're gonna get
90 some percent of your questions
answered for sure but you might still
have others here's where this guidance
come in now really big disclaimer you
actually sign this disclaimer you signed
a legal document when you purchase the
templates by clicking to agree is that
RP coaches write the PhD experts that
had a big role in designing these
templates and they coach clients
themselves they coach one-on-one they
are not actually allowed to answer
template questions the only reason we
put that in is because there are
literally at any one point tens of
thousands of people that use these
templates if we said that you could ask
coaches for these templates they really
would just turn into personal coaching
for free and the coaches would take all
of their time away from their paying
clients to helping template customers
and because we value our paying clients
so much because they're getting such a
beefier service that's more expensive we
can't have coaches answering template
questions but we've got a lot more
support than just that so bad news
coaches can answer questions however we
have a lot more stuff first of all we
have a massive Facebook group Facebook
community called RP clients you just
type in RP clients on Facebook it'll
bring you right to the group
it has over 60,000 members in it and
almost all of them have been template
customers at some point or are currently
temple of customers and tons of these
folks are super duper awesome super
helpful you type in a question in RP
clients say hey guys can you help me out
with this this and that and almost
certainly you'll get tons of answers
from people who are currently doing
their stuff at that very moment if you
have a technical question maybe you
didn't receive all the documents for
your template or you purchase the
template but you don't see it in your
inbox for super technical questions
especially about the business side of
things
RP clients probably isn't the place to
go what you want to do is go to
Renaissance position comm and there's a
customer service desk it's called Zen
desk chat it's in the bottom right hand
corner and what you do is you zoom right
into there it's gonna be in the bottom
right hand corner and says they don't
ask us anything you just talk and we
have a live representative there at most
hours of the day and night you talk to
them you ask them questions you say hey
you know my template arrived but I can't
open it or my template arrived but it
seems like the how-to is missing or
whatever you have on your mind you go
ahead and ask them they might be able to
answer some basic questions about
guidelines of food and eating but
they're not trained for that they're
trained more on the business amp so you
can totally ask them that kind of stuff
and they should get back to you very
very quickly if not right away lastly if
you've exhausted all those sources what
you can do is sign up for our pay site
ok our membership site it's $20 a month
and usually we have sales it's even less
than that so for 20 bucks a month that's
called RP plus there we actually have a
bunch of free recipes a huge recipe
guide on how to make food we have a
bunch of expert videos by coaches we
have an entire online curriculum called
RP University we've got tons of stuff
but one of the things we have and it's
all included in that $20 a month is a
literal so not a webinar a literal forum
in which template experts answer every
question you have about how to work
through your template and they guarantee
your answers if you go to RP clients
you'll very likely get answers but
sometimes your question gets missed or
sometimes the answer seemed to be by
folks who might have figured something
stuff out but maybe aren't sure about
some other stuff if you want a distinct
expert ance
go to rp+ sign up hit up the template
forum and there's going to be a person
who is an expert in this stuff and
they're gonna guarantee you an answer
for how to take care of your templum
between all those services you're very
very likely to find your answers and get
taken care of and because the templates
so easy you might not need a whole lot
of help to begin with
in any case use all these resources get
all the support you need and you'll be
well on your way towards success in
losing the fat and gaining the muscle
that you want thanks so much
explore that how to explore that FAQ do
well with your templates and if you like
share your results on Instagram on
Facebook or throw you in our group
well tag you it will all have fun
getting in shape together thanks so much
for tuning in
best of luck