I hate it I hate I don't even like the
PE contraction I don't get anything out
of it I've never liked it like that
whole squeeze [ __ ] I never like this you
heard it here yeah this man is fully
lengthened partial pill fam the sh bus
for real for
realr S tier uh Pepe the Frog
anderies am I young yet all right
grandpa welcome back Dr my wolf here
with wolf coaching once again with Dr
Mike hello after talking about traumatic
childhood experiences last time one
thing I wasn't sure whether we should
touch on but that's what my pastor said
and then he did of course and then
you've been scored since no I was fine
had a good time point of Pride yeah he
chose me among all the other kids I
think he's found himself and I've found
out some stuff range of motion so we
both both found
something and what I think we need to
discuss is whether we both agree about
how deep to go my God Pastor John oh
sorry
that's that again hey man Dreams yeah
every night moist even they wet dreams
every night anyways range of motion yes
how deep should you go do we agree
should you still get a peak squeeze and
finish strong should you get a good
thrust in ooh you know I think you've
mistaken me for br tras all love and
jokes my friend shout out Brett some of
the exercise he puts out actually the
most Innovative and you'll never run out
of variation and uh you can't do front
foot elevated Smith machine lunges like
we do forever so you got to do other
stuff I love they are [ __ ] great
though they're [ __ ] they're or whatever
they allow for a good stretch Aha and so
we need to discuss whether you think
full range emotion length and partials
what do you think is better for ayet and
the proper answer I would give is a
little complicated but I would say we
haven't examined we haven't not enough
convincing evidence on holistic Regional
hypertrophy to rule out the possibility
that lengthened partials um don't exact
a huge amount of General hypertrophy but
a massive amount of let's say distal
Regional hypertrophy and that full range
of motion may be able to give you a more
uniform hypertrophy I'm not sure if
that's true or false you may know better
than me if that's true or false I just
don't think we have compelling evidence
yet and because your muscles are
literally designed by Evolution to move
through a full range of motion their
entire range of motion I ECT that
there's some inclusion of a whole range
of motion May for whole muscle
hypertrophy may be a net benefit however
we also know another very important
thing that long muscle length training
and independently of that just
stretching by itself are very robust
hypertrophic stimulators and I'm not
going to assume some kind of religious
ideology # team full ROM that you got to
do for Ram the only reason that a lot of
people do foram is just ASMR like or or
like a just obsessive compulsive
disorder like like if you go to here and
you stop but you didn't do this part
like I think you honestly need
psychiatric help conratulations you just
went from tying your ego to the weight
on the bar to tying your ego to a
technique in for range emotion yes you
did well better than weight on the bar
but is it you know maybe not right guess
better than wait on the bar at the
expense of technique but if you tie your
ego to good technique I think that's
probably good however what is good
technique so I'll say this here's my
current position on it I would say if
have to be a betting man my current
position which absolutely could change
that's how science works I would say is
aim to get mostly a full range of motion
but heavily biased to accentuating
exposure to tension at long muscle
lengths so for example if you're doing
if you have if you want to design the
ultimate chest press machine I would say
that it should allow you to lock out and
allow you to get the deepest stretch
ever but the loading should be very
small here and very large here that
that's how I would surise my current
best that's how I try to do most of my
training but based on largely your
literature and well your analysis of
literature some of which you're
primarily involved on in many exercises
I no longer do that Peak contraction
thing because I think it's just
marginally not worth it um and my
experience I get bigger pumps bigger
soreness and seemingly better growth and
rep strength over time if I don't
necessarily lock out so I used to do
calf training in that kind of ASMR way
where like the peak contraction matters
and so does the Deep stretch and then
come all the way up to the peak
contraction where you are up on the
balls of your feet that is how you know
that you've done a good
rep it's way look most draal so really
you can't avoid it for the reels you
know especially if you're looking in the
mirror and you're doing alternating
one-arm curls like if you don't do this
part who even where is Gold's Gym you
couldn't even find it on a map uh I used
to focus uh as much on the Deep stretch
in the calves as I would on that Peak
control contration and I always noted
that in the peak contraction like the
Mind muscle connection and as we defin
it at RP mind muscle connection is a
profound burn of the muscle or profound
ribbing tension I wasn't getting that
with the peak contraction I was kind of
like uh I get a peak contraction with it
doesn't seem like there's a lot of
stimulus being driven there so never
loved it but I did it because it all
range of motion and then when I saw your
literature you and I talked a few times
I gave it some thought I experimented
with lengthened uh bias training in my
calves so now I don't lock out fully on
my calf like leg press I don't log out
fully I come all the way down for a deep
stretch which I now hold for 2 to 4
seconds at the bottom then I come up
most of the way maybe 65% of the way
down and then come back in with the
centri control my calav is reliably for
any given number of sets more pump more
sore visibly more growth and way more
strength gains to the point I have five
plates on the calf what the [ __ ] is
going on I'm going to tear my calf
tendons apart it just seems to work
better on every single line of evidence
so I just don't lock out my calf stuff
anymore could I be missing out on some
hypothetical benefit some fraction of
the musculature only gets activated
maximally during lockout I think that's
likely but on the net aggregate of
muscle hypertrophy should you still be
biasing the majority of your training
into lengthened position yes and I'll
make another argument from a slightly
different perspective whatever range of
motion you're doing your exercises if
you're missing out on a huge tension
stretch part I think you're making a
really big mistake so if someone's doing
full range of motion I don't care that
they're locking out all the way I'd be
like that's okay but if they're lock it
all the way but they're going down to
here and then they're coming back up I'm
like all right dude if you're GNA if
you're gonna buy us anything bias the
bottom yeah and it's interesting because
as far as technique goes biasing link
position via partials or via 4ange of
motion seems to be one of the only
things we really empirically know it's
like hey or at least to have a very high
degree of confidence and it's like if
you're missing the stretch you are
likely reducing how much hypy you're
going to see totally and there's no
counter example to that that I'm aware
of yeah so to touch on two things you
brought up there was a lot there very
good take on the hole I would say um one
is my pastor also had a good take on my
whole what please continue Milo I'm
sorry Nightmares From yester I'm
daydreaming now two men
well let's not get canceled keep going
um there's two things you mentioned that
I want to bring up one is regional hyhy
so I'm aware of about 25 studies I think
on the dot in fact if not 27 now with
the calf research that have looked at a
more lengthened form of training and
compared it to a more shortened form of
training that could be an isometric hold
at longer muscle lengths versus an
isometric hold at shorter muscle lengths
could be a partial at longer muscle
lengths or partial shorter muscle
lengths could be a full range of motion
versus a length and partial most of
these studies don't just measure
hypertrophy at one site they measure
hypertrophy at more proximal and more
distal sites I recently went through a
lot of these studies again and this is a
rough estimate so don't come for me in
the comments if you've read all these
studies which I don't think you have but
regardless see you in the comments yeah
then respect I will see you in the
comments um on the battlefield comments
at all indeed but across 25 studies I've
read I think two have found marginally
more hypertrophy at the proximal site
from shorten training every other study
pretty much I can think of has found
similar or more hypertrophy from length
and training even at proximal sites with
that prevalence of Greater growth from
shorten training in proximal areas being
so low and almost inclined to think it's
more the type one err I see 2 out of 27
is good evidence for something not
existing exactly it's better evidence
for it not existing than it exists with
a normal distribution around a positive
effect you would have some effects that
I would say if you never found it you
would be curious about like study bias
or there something going on you know and
so if anything with a regional hypy
thing it may be an absence of evidence
that we don't have the studies that look
at sufficiently proximal sites for very
good reasons when you're ultrasounding
muscle sometimes you don't see totally
you know or like a a five-site analysis
AC Ross the entire bicep we don't really
see that much so when people say we
understand Regional hypertrophy robustly
we don't understand it robustly we
understand it as like one or the other
I've seen a few studies where there's
three areas examined but those are
highly uncommon so be and I really think
that lengthen bias training is probably
King and shorten bias training is
probably a [ __ ] waste of time but as
a proper scientific thinker I have to
say that the totality evidence is not so
powerful that I'm willing to completely
rule it out but in my own practice
practice yeah when I when I do incline I
just stop here and and someone's like
why don't you do this and I'm like why
don't you tell me why you think to do
this and there's no good answer sure so
to come to that point in that case as a
scientific thinker let's break down the
evidence on length and partials of for
range emotion I think since we last
spoke there have been two more studies
on topic so there's now five studies one
of which is unpublished but I'll mention
it here as well because they have done
previous studies in the like C and the
push down verit extension one study in
like press work hous and colleagues they
found the same growth between a super
small length and partial 9° of knee
extension versus a relatively more
fourwing of motion that's the only study
where they've seen similar growth
between a length and partial approach
and a full range of motion notably this
was in concentric only training so it's
not even like it's it's a sort of not
very ecologically valid yeah so I would
say consider that study as like oh okay
maybe the effect isn't as strong as we
thought what have you or maybe with
super small ranges of Mo motion it
doesn't matter but that's the first
study all four other Studies have found
a fair bit more hypertrophy from length
and partials compared to from range of
motion the most recent study that hasn't
been published yet is by mywing
colleagues where they compared doing
length and partials so half reps in
stretch position on the multi- hiip
machine to doing a full range of motion
just missing that Peak squeeze so they
went to 0 degrees of hip flection not
hyperextending the hip and they saw
about twice the hypertrophy in GL Max
over twice in fact they saw twice the
hypertrophy in several of the well in
all of the hamstring heads measured
around twice bit less than twice in some
bit more than twice in others so
essentially around twice a have in all
the hip extensor musculature measured
from an RDL or hip hinge like motion so
that's to me very compelling evidence
then we have another study that came out
since the metanalysis by casan and
colleagues which was a c one where they
compared length and partials the bottom
half of the rep not getting that Peak
squeeze to top half partials just Peak
squeeze essentially to for range of
motion and they saw about twice as much
hypertrophy in both sides measured
lateral and medial calf so inside and
outside of the calf for length and
partials versus range of motion so again
around twice as much hyphy then we have
the two remaining Studies by uh goodu
and colleagues which was more of a
mid-length partial so they kind of
compared doing mid to long length
partial kind of like from here to like
here maybe thereabouts around the mid
length but a bit length and biased to
four range motion seeing more
hypertrophy from that but I wouldn't
count this as a strong piece of evidence
because it was more of a midlength
partial right and then the final study
was a study by Pedro and colleagues
which has been talked about a lot which
was a like Central one where they
compared a 4 Mo motion to bottom half
partials the top half partials to doing
both the bottom half and the top half
partials for half their volume
respectively now you think if there's
something to shorten position but
there's also something to lengthen
partials maybe the leg doing the bottom
half partials and top half partials
separately would potentially see a bit
more growth in certain areas and by and
large they measured a variety of sites
for a variety of muscle groups of the
quads that didn't really happen
generally the most favorable hypertrophy
was still seen in the length and partial
only group and so we have these five
studies where you often see hypertrophy
as large as twice as much and in fact we
have a study coming up that's being
published right now uh looking at the
impact of hip angle during the leg
extension on quad hypertrophy seeing
that the muscle that's being lengthened
more the rectus foror it's impacted
through hip positioning um when that was
being lengthened more by extending your
hips on a leg extension grew between 50%
more at distal site to 170% more at the
proximal site M so even in this case at
the proximal site where you'd think oh
maybe shorten training is better
length and training led to like nearly
three times as much growth and as I
mentioned in the overall data we have I
think two findings or so roughly that
find a meaningful amount more
hypertrophy from shortened training in
that proximal area equally when you're
talking about the effect of shortened
training versus lengthen training on
proximal hypertrophy versus hypertrophy
mechanistically if there was something
to that you would expect somewhat of a
dose response relationship where the
more shortened the training is the
better it should be for proximal growth
and the more lengthen it is the better
it should be for distal growth and
there's kind of a Spectrum right oh I'm
on the Spectrum hey aren't we all autism
gang um when you're like aren't we all I
like have a very poor reaction to the
joke I don't know oh yeah there it is
anyways um and so when we don't see that
in the literature cuz we have examples
of relatively more proximal measurement
sites and pretty shorten training and
not seeing more hypertrophy I'm inclined
to think that if we were not observing
any any semblance of those response
relationship there and we're still
seeing similar or greater hypy typically
with length and training even a proximal
sites I'm skeptical and the final thing
is outside of that research the research
looking at lengthen ver shortened
training and looking at actual
hypertrophy so the most direct form of
research there is I'm just not aware of
any good evidence that would point us
towards certain areas of the muscle
growing more even mechanistically like
EMG as we both know as a predictor of
hypertrophy unless you meet a number of
conditions I don't I don't think it
really works you know I have a whole
video about like six ways EMG sucks yep
then hey if you want a paper about that
check out the review paper by the gosk
colleagues from 202 cited heavily in
that video by the way I corresponded
with Andrew hey am I saying genius he I
don't know I hear the regional Hyo
concern from a very very very very
conservative place but I just don't
think the evidence supports it yeah it's
uh it's a concern mostly for as a
procedural concern sure so that we don't
overvalue the initial wave of evidence I
got I've seen a remember one thing we
have to count for as publication bias
well there's ways
to there are ways to assess publication
we have assess to with it wasy good so
not there's no perfect way to assess it
for it sure um because people can just
not choose to release certain results
because X right um so there's a degree
of guarding I have to do for
intellectual kind of holistic approach
but uh to put it in Internet gamer meme
terms now we're talking uh top end
partials are shaking RN they're mid mid
or they're punching the air off kind
cringe TB yeah exactly s tier whatever
just I'm a masturbation addict that
plays Dungeons and Dragons I got it I
got it he said it all basically I think
that the evidence is starting to become
incrementally more
compelling that um lengthened partials
definitely just any sort of emphasis on
the length and position is a good thing
for me personally because I don't train
purely for hypertrophy I train function
as well because of Jiu-Jitsu I have to
do in most cases the whole range of
motion because it happens to be in
Jiu-Jitsu you have to be strong through
a full range of motion so I still do
more of that if I was training for Pure
pure hypertrophy and incrementally more
as the evidence comes out I'm doing more
and more length in bias training another
thing is if we find out that the length
in the position is 10% more hypertrophic
than the shortened position it's not
there's it's more deep than that that
and even more biased towards length and
makes sense and here's how you in any
one set have a certain amount of fatigue
that you could expend until the set ends
if you do that set mostly in the stretch
position the amount of total stimulus is
quite high if you expend fatigue in a
not so great position then you
essentially can't do as much positive
work it's like M it down 100% it's like
if you have $50 to spend and you want to
see a couple of movies when you buy
popcorn now you see two movies instead
of three so how much do you want the
Popcorn versus the movies uh there's
limited resources here's another thing
the fatigue imposed on the the the uh
especially the entric component of a
lengthen position is not nearly as
neurologically fatiguing as the
concentric component of the shortened
partial this is a really hard this I
don't want to say you can kind of smoke
a Sig while you do it but it kind of
takes care of it itself to some to some
marginal extent so if you're insisting
on [ __ ] locking out everything all
the time you're costing more reps you
could have done in the lengthen position
and you are costing yourself um a lot of
cumulative fatigue over time so I think
biasing the majority of your training to
lengthen positions is even more
advantageous than would appear just on
examining what is better to train in
weird isolated laboratory conditions so
I'm even supporting your point even more
than you were supporting your point I
thought I were supposed to beef fa uh uh
is that good enough that's that's
odd my spirit animal is the miniature
Doxon it looks it looks
adorable bro they B so much they're like
the barest dogs ever they also bite they
huge bite rates absolutely they can't do
much damage because of the size of your
foot but like they're mean [ __ ] dogs
they also have back problems pretty
often because of they're yeah they're
too long oh
no it'd be they need length and partials
they do everything's a length and
partial when you're a doxin though if
you think about it that is true I'm
thinking surgery right now damn you ever
think about how why we're bipedal
nowadays yeah why I don't tired of it
you know like why use our hands for
anything just walk on for I haven't used
my hands in yours I have Butlers for
that that's true to finish off this
video I just want to give a couple
caveats I think we agree on most things
well one question first before I move on
to the caveats cuz there's one final
thing I want to ask how do you reconcile
from an empirical perspective or from a
applicability of scientific findings
perspective using lengthened biased
forms of training versus just straight
up using lengthened partials because
ultimately most of what we studied in
research isn't really a lot of like all
right let's pause and length position or
let's really control the Ecentric so
while I recommend these things as kind
of like adjunct tools to emphasize the
stretch the most direct way of applying
the research that we have and thus the
most Surefire way to get the additional
hypertrophy we observe in these studies
is to mimic the conditions of the study
and that is to say to use lengthened
partials as opposed to like controlling
the stretch more or what have you how
come you prefer to use those what I
consider secondary ways of emphasizing
the
stret because you don't grow from
specific conditions you grow from
underlying
mechanisms studies are worthless unless
they indicate underlying mechanisms of
action because studies also are not on
you the subject they're in a different
training age they're in a different
group of people I'm not a Collegiate 22y
old male Etc but the issue is we don't
understand those mechanisms yet so we
can certainly try and get them through
rational thinking and that's something
but until we have more evidence from
these studies in the same corts and the
same actual study I tend to think that
we should take the safer bet so to speak
not so much make inferential jumps based
on a rational thinking about What
mechanisms must be involved but more so
try and directly apply the research
until we have a more solid foundation
for these are the mechanisms and that's
one of the big gaps in the research is
we don't fully understand the mechanisms
yet people online certain people will
claim we understand them full yet we
don't all we know to an extent is that
it causes more growth there can be the
involvement of different things but so
to me until we understand those
mechanisms more profoundly I just think
we should apply them I hear that I
really don't like verbatim applications
from studies you can get yourself in a
lot of trouble that way locing threshold
we got into a lot of trouble that way a
bunch of other
situations uh though I hear that it's a
safe bet from rationalizing why you're
doing something what I like to do is try
to take guesses at why that thing is
affecting the thing and replicate the
conditions to a high degree I don't
think you need one to one replication I
agree you're not going to run [ __ ]
only Cal phrases in your program because
that's Liv in the study 100% but you
know as close to it as you can be while
still respecting other fundamental
principles of programming for sure for
sure for sure so there's nothing wrong
with length and partials I think they're
great but what I would say is if you are
highly length and biasing your full
range of motion training the argument
against doing that it becomes to be uh
quite limited here's another thing if
you are making exercises with resistance
curves that uh heavily favor the
lengthen position let's say a free
motion curl where it's super crazy hard
here and really easy here you might be
entering into essentially a rest pause
situation where from here to here I mean
you can do one set and then fail and
it's a great productive set you do
another set later but if you go through
a full range of motion with this part's
really easy you're actually resting here
you can get more total reps within a
given set and more exposures to tension
in that productive area because you're
essentially taking longer rest pauses
between and so set to set like once I'm
plugged into a machine I want to [ __ ]
go and then I can actually do a better
job stimulating hypertrophy if I have
that rust paw system built in so if I'm
uh for example on a leg press if I have
a machine that's really really tough at
the bottom and easy at the Top If I go
through a full range of motion on that
machine I get 25 reps instead of 15 is
that a big difference it could be it
could not be I I don't think it matters
much and because for me the
functionality the tracking variable is
is a thing that can uh be resolved
really well to me it's those things
should be expected on a theoretical
basis to cause roughly similar
hypertrophy but because for me function
is still important and I think the
tracking used full range of motion is
very marginal but nonetheless uh
important then you you end end up in a
situation where for some exercises if
it's heavily biased towards the stretch
getting that little Peak contraction
gives you that little break I think it
comes out roughly equal and May in some
cases be advantage to actually get that
little pulse at the top but maybe not I
have three thoughts on that and then
I'll close off the video one is the
research on rest pause for hypertrophy
isn't all that compelling so on
principle I wouldn't think rest pausing
is something you need to be chasing in
your training so like that's not a
sufficiently compelling reason as a
stand alone for me to say let's do this
for motion to get more reps in as a
quasi rest pause technique the second
thing is I think that technique is going
to be great to an extent for increasing
time efficiency because you're
essentially Shifting the goal post of
failure right if all you did was a
bottom half and you're under relatively
constant tension your failure Point
might occur after 15 reps like that if
you're doing a full range of motion and
doing a quasi rest pause you're
extending or going past that theoretical
failure point with that range of motion
and getting more and more reps
essentially past failure in a
theoretical or framework sense and so
while that would cause more growth on a
pro set basis I don't think it would
necessarily increase sfr for example I
think it might be a similar sfr or
slightly worse or what have you if you
generally assume that there is a
negative sfr trade off when you go
closer and closer and potentially past
failure right I personally don't think
that necessarily I think training closer
to failure is probably a good thing for
hypertrophy but I think that if you
think that there is a trade-off between
how close to failure you go and how much
fatigue you acve versus how much
additional stimulus you get it may be a
consideration that hey you're not first
of all you're not getting much upir if
those stimulus goes and second of all by
going past that theoretical failure
point you may be getting more additional
fatigue that isn't worth a slight
increase in stimulus but by and large I
agree and I think honestly it probably
doesn't make a huge difference in Anise
already make a huge difference in an
excise that's already super link and
bied a dumb off sure does it really
matter whether you do top half of the
ref or not sure I don't really think it
does the exercise is already a
lengthened partial essentially in its
foundation 100% And so I think that a
lot of the benefits from this research
can likely be acred through wise
exercise selection that's a huge one
that's a topic for a video we'll doing
the op Channel I suspect very likely and
also like a good illustration of that is
the spider curl where you B over a bench
you do this is like you know variation
is great and for some people it works
but it's generally dog [ __ ] extracise
versus like a lying dumbbell curl it
feels sweet though it I hate it I hate I
don't even like the PE contraction I
don't get anything out of it I've never
liked it like that whole squeeze [ __ ] I
never like this you heard it here yeah
this man is fully lengthened partial
pill fam this sh busting for real for
real F FRFR s tier uh Pepe the Frog
energies am I young yet all right
grandpa it's been a great video it's
been an honor if you like the video
please comment like subscribe if you
haven't already and I'm sure you have
already go subscribe to the RP Channel
we'll see you in the next one peace