hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization and for your nightly
report to the scourge that is
overshadowing our great nation today is
shoulder impingement it is coming for
the elderly for children and yes even
for athletic populations as well is
anyone safe stay tuned right now
what is the deal with shoulder
impingement and really are you gonna die
from it hmm let's find out so first
before discussing all of the stuff
around shoulder impingement we should
really try to Define it I find that a
lot of the conversation on the internet
about shoulder impingement kind of just
assumes people know what it is it really
does sound pretty scary and then uh
once you realize what it is maybe it
doesn't sound as scary defining terms is
absolutely the first critical thing to
establish in any productive discussion
so here we go
definition is when the tendons of your
rotator cuff musculature rub up on the
acromion that sits just above them
there are a few other structures in
there such as bursal sacs that can get
in the mix and get some of that rubbing
going
the rubbing is usually benign as a
matter of fact by Design it's okay that
if it happens but a lot of rubbing
specifically with high forces impinged
on those structures are imparted on them
rather if the rubbing goes from this to
that it happens repeatedly over and over
you can develop an inflammatory cycle
inflammation occurs
at the acromion and at those other
structural components and then
inflammation can go
and turn into pain
once it turns into pain
you're going to notice that the pain
usually comes a lot of times with all
shoulder movements but especially with
shoulder movements that go when your arm
is higher overhead if you keep at it and
say whatever shoulder pain is normal I
don't know why you would say that but
let's say you did eventually the
continual rubbing that is already
deleterious to the structures can cause
what is termed as macro damage like you
can actually see okay well there's where
that part was supposed to be but at the
really the connective tissues have been
rubbed pretty raw and then if that
occurs there's actually something to
heal other than the inflammation to
bring down and then you're going to have
spend some time in some pain and you're
going to have to spend some time healing
those structures which the pain and the
and the annoyance and the weird movement
can hang around for some time if you
just continue to go in and make the
situation worse so that's shoulder
impingement I've seen a lot of people
think shoulder impingements other things
people think like oh there's like a
nerve stuck in there and you're
impinging that nerve that's not remotely
what shoulder impingement is it's just
two structures rubbing on each other and
the rubbing gets to be a bit too much
you know like Friday night when you've
had a few and rubbing the next day
you're like ow and your partner's like
oh I'm just kidding you're doing this at
home by yourself all right so what
causes shoulder impingement
technically speaking any kind of
shoulder movement that causes the
acromion to rub up on the rotator cuff
tendons can cause children pigment
technically the impingement is when the
tendons are impinged in the acromion for
vice versa
however there is a probability to what
causes it what kind of movement causes
it and the most high probability
movement is a movement that goes
overhead puts your humerus above
parallel
especially if it's angled backwards
forward is not as high of a risk and
especially if you internally rotate
you're humerus at the same time does
this look like an upright road to anyone
it sure should does so that position
especially in folks that have a design
of the shoulder bones that makes the
rubbing more likely is the likeliest
thing to cause that in impingement to
potentially occur potentially but just
the movement itself is usually not
enough
chronic movement over time multiple
times a week
each time it causes discomfort that's
the kind of thing
that is the biggest Factor so if you
just move right here right now by
yourself and rotate your humor oh good
hey there it hurts okay it feels weird
you're not gonna get impingement doing
that but if you do five sets of upright
rows Monday Wednesday Friday and it
starts to feel real weird and icky and
painful here but you don't care and you
keep going then the probability that you
get shoulder impingement actually starts
to begin that's how the inflammatory
cycle begins if you nick something or
rub a little bit too hard
but then you just keep going that's how
you develop the syndrome shoulder
impingement syndrome itself it is a
syndrome because it's just like there's
just a lot of inflammation going on
there it's not a disease it's not
contagious none of that crazy stuff
so
okay fine we understand the definition
we understand what causes it
cool how do we prevent shoulder
impingement or a better way to view
prevention is decrease significantly the
probability of it occurring because we
can't really prevent technically
speaking with 100 certainty anything but
we can absolutely decrease probabilities
so first most people just won't get
shoulder impingement in normal training
Olympic weightlifters enter this
position all the time shoulder
impingement for them is very rare it's
just not something you're like oh yeah
your Olympic weightlifter you're for
sure getting shoulder management that's
not even close to the truth
which means upright rows and super arm
laterals are totally fine for most
people until otherwise indicated
now
most people who do get shoulder
impingement
before they get it can tell that their
shoulder joints are not comfortable
during overhead movements probably the
vast majority of people that get
shoulder impingement in the gym setting
are folks that cannot discriminate
between proper burn style and tension
style muscle pain and actual joints
rubbing up on each other pain
to be honest that's like almost everyone
who's recreationally into fitness has
been training for the first six months
or a year and oftentimes many people
even much after that like your client
who's a 55 year old woman who started
training you with you four months ago
and you train her over the Internet when
she's doing upright rows she kind of
expects it to hurt and if it hurts her
shoulder doing she just might be like I
like that that's what working out is and
it turns out that she should have
detected it was her shoulder joint
hurting not the side dealt muscle or the
Trap muscle and then backed off and made
some kind of change it doesn't sneak up
on you in most cases shoulder
impingement can sneak up on you but that
is highly unlikely you do not have to be
paranoid you're doing upright rows just
to hear and you're like man I hope I
don't wake up tomorrow shoulder
impingement that's very unliked but if
you're doing upright roast to here and
you're like ow ow my joint ow my joint
rack take out your RP training app and
go that felt great my joints felt great
your programs you six sets next week and
you just keep crushing it that's how
you're most likely going to get children
which takes us to our best preventative
measures and I have four of them for you
today I think yep
first
don't do any exercises that make your
shoulder in the joint feel painful or
weird like if there's some kind of weird
clicking and snapping if it hurts at the
same time or it feels like you're
grinding joint to Joint stop doing that
movement there are so many ways to train
your shoulders we got lateral raises
from every angle upright rows from every
angle face pulse from every angle cables
machines oh my God there's like dozens
and dozens of shoulder movements you
will almost certainly find one or two
that works well for you
huge huge thing so if you're just doing
some kind of upright row that you found
out through the internet was really cool
but it's really really fucking up your
joints and you're like well it's what it
takes to grow stop doing that and you're
at risk for shoulder impingement
precipitously Falls next
if
you want to try something like upright
rows up to the face or super ROM
laterals where you go way over your head
these are fundamentally healthy totally
awesome movements that are great for
muscular development but
they're putting your shoulder in a
loaded situation in a position where
it's not used to so you should want to
ease in if you're going to do super ROM
laterals pick very light weights first
and do those for a few sessions or a few
weeks until you get the hang of it and
there's no weird pain then you can go up
and load or even better
start going up a little bit higher than
parallel
next work out do the same thing
confirmed feels great now I'm going up a
bit higher two workouts in a row I go up
that high Everything feels great now I
go up all the way and then everything's
totally good don't just jump in
look at the 20s and be like okay I do
this it's a 25s for regular laterals 20s
for supram laterals it is boom let's do
tons of sets and Reps that huge shock in
the new range of motion a combination of
new range of motion and very heavy
loading is not something you want to
push into your body if you want to keep
the risk relatively low of shoulder
impingement syndrome number three
use good technique
which in part means controlling the
eccentric and use loads that you can
handle for at least 10 or even better 15
plus repetitions per set especially in
the first set or early sets when you're
fresh
or higher in most cases which means if
you're doing sets of five or sets of
eight of really heavy upright rows or
lateral raises why
almost certainly you don't get your best
growth and even if you did you have to
consider the glenohumeral joint and all
of the other joints in the shoulder God
Jesus there's no way to say this
it's not a scare tactic but it's just
not the toughest joint in the body
right there's a lot of stuff you can do
to your knees you can squat 800 pounds
your knees are probably going to be fine
to injure your knees you got to go doing
some weird shit like jump on one leg off
a fucking building or get tackled in
football run around jump really high the
shoulders are a bit finicky they just
are there's a lot going on it's really
easy to create a huge moment arm on a
tiny joint that's a thing so give
yourself the long-term View and try to
do lighter wraps now here's the thing
lighter load sets of 10 plus 15 plus 20
plus reps per set will burn your
shoulders off of your body it is
probably in my view for most people a
better way to go about hypertrophy for
the delts than going heavy and it has
that extra unbelievable benefit of
really reducing your probability of
injury risk if you're coming up with
laterals like this and falling back down
and you're scooting them up really hard
and falling them back down stop doing
that go up under control pause at the
top and slowly milk that descent that
means all the structures don't move
super dynamically and there's more of a
chance they're not going to slide up
against each other in a way that you
might not like yes it's bad for the ego
but it's great for two things one is
reduced injury risk which is amazing
that's why you're watching this video by
the way and two it actually makes you
gains better it would be one thing if I
was like look reduce your loads and you
won't get as good of gains but it's
worth seeing your risk that could be a
valid argument we don't even have to
make it this is better for both things
it just costs you two things really you
go hit from having to use the 15s
instead of the 25s on lateral raises and
two fucking pain because High rep
shoulders are going to have you like
trying to lean on something to get the
the acid out and be like hell people are
going to try to help you in the gym or
like are you okay let me get you
something like uh just call the police
the cops get there you're still freaking
out you get tased thrown in jail that's
happened to me after several higher up
shoulder workouts so pay the cost to be
the boss
number four
if you decide to start putting in
movements that go overhead
right and pull the humorous High
in shoulder training
please ease into that movement as far as
volume is concerned here's what I mean
by that if you program upright rows or
high upright rows into your program for
the first time in a long time or in
Forever do not do five sets of upright
rows in your first session that is
actually a really good way to get
impingement while on its way you get
that inflammatory cycle rolling three
sessions later you got you can be
diagnosed with impingement syndrome
because it took you three separate
workouts of way too much volume to get
there however remember the body is
resilient and if you move in a certain
way within its ability to adapt the next
time it gets better at handling stress
so if you're really just trying to do
upright rows for the first time ever
pulling them nice and high start with a
set or two of them almost certainly not
going to give you shoulder impingement
syndrome a couple days later we were
trained shoulders twice a week you do
two or three sets a couple days later
Everything feels fine you do three or
four a couple days later you do four or
five and then boom you're into that
awesome volume Zone and you're getting
your great growth the real good way to
get shoulder impingement or increase
this probability rather is to like say
oh I want to do upright rows and just
blast the shit five six seven sets and
then yeah like you could wake up the
next day and be like fuck my shoulder
kind of hurts no shit you don't ever
want to do a ton of anything right off
the bat easing in is a huge deal
now let's say
it's late for you
you like the prevention talk that I just
gave but you're like fuck man I already
have fucking shoulder impingement so for
me prevention's off the table Yeah for
next time I hear you what do I do now
how do I get treatment first of all I am
not a medical doctor so consider all of
this as just friendly advice from
someone on the internet I do have a PhD
in sport physiology that's not on the
medical side that's on the performance
enhancement side however before we go
see doctors there are things we can do
ourselves for example
first just backing off the volume and
load is a big factor I've talked to a
ton of people who are having shoulder
problems and I'm like okay did you do
back off on the shoulder training like
well I'm trying to find a workaround but
still smashing it bro okay you're a
fucking idiot don't do that back away
your shoulders won't shrivel off your
body your body's unbelievable at
maintaining the gains it's made it's
very good at gaining the gains back if
it loses any spend a couple weeks of
very little shoulder training heal up
and then you'll ramp back in no problem
and in two months from now you'll have
the biggest shoulders you've ever had as
opposed to in two months still not being
able to train them right and causing
even more damage over time by going
through the impingement and just fucking
up more shit next
before you ramp back up into real
working weights and volumes make sure
that pretty much all of the discomfort
is gone there is something you can do in
the interim though
and that's very light often unloaded
movements that take you through that
range of motion and as you feel a bit
better every two or three days you do
some of those so you hurt your shoulder
it's impingement you're like okay fuck I
can't do this shit anymore stop all
shoulder training for the next few days
or weeks just after the shoulder feels a
little bit better it will with rest try
to just move your arms through that
range of motion
for as many reps until it either Burns a
lot or you can feel it kind of like
getting nasty again okay stop wait a
couple more days try two sets of that
wait a couple more days over time those
those movements that you're doing are
really just rehab that body weight or
very lot dumbbell or very light bar
movements is just getting that motion
again the inflammatory cycle starts to
fall you hit it again it rises a little
bit but a lot of healing comes through
there and then it goes back again Rises
a little back again after a few days or
a few weeks you're going to be like dude
my shoulders feel 100 that is when you
start with a one set of upright rows in
the next workout at an actual decent
weight close to failure then two then
three then Etc don't just go okay I feel
great five sets of upright rows that is
almost guaranteed to fuck you up again
but I've seen that about 900 000 times
here are things not to do and people do
this all the time do not get a shoulder
pain situation and go okay I'll just
take non-steroidal anti-inflammatories
ibuprofen and stuff like that don't mask
the pain with NSAIDs NSAIDs absolutely
do lower the inflammatory cycle but if
there's actually any kind of macro
damage there already as soon as you're
off NSAIDs it's going to come back
hardcore another problem with NSAIDs is
while they do lower the inflammatory
cycle they do lower the potential for
that actual tissue to undergo true
healing true reconstitution true
remodeling they actually steer you away
from that it's kind of like a short-term
fix
so when you are training just for
bodybuilding you don't have the Olympics
coming up in two weeks don't use NSAIDs
to mask pain that is a very very very
bad idea feel the shit as you feel it
and let that pain be a guide towards
easing you into some rehab work and then
easing you into some good work without
if you mask it you'll be like oh I feel
great boom and then you do even more
damage and then it's even worse then you
need even more NSAIDs it's not a cycle
you want to be in and also don't just
ice your shit after training and then go
back and train hard every other day I
watched an entire team of Olympic
weightlifters more or less most of the
team put two massive ice bags on their
shoulders after every session
why if you've got worlds coming up hey
Ice away you need to suppress all the
inflammation until you get through World
Championships win your medal and then go
home and fall apart like Mr Potato Head
then you heal after a few months and you
go back in but
folks the people I'm speaking to in this
video you
you might be a professional bodybuilder
but it's unlikely you might want to be
one eventually which means you need to
take care of yourself or more likely
you're a recreational lifter that just
wants to fucking look jacked and lean
and you know what I'm saying say what up
to some ladies and like what's up you're
like oh no got healthy delves and she's
like I love healthy nails you know that
that's it huh she's a guests my biggest
fat I should
yeah shit girl but in any case you want
to take care of yourself icing and
anti-inflammatory suppress the very
healing processes to make you
temporarily feel okay what part of that
sounds like a good idea if you want your
shoulders to actually heal real hard
training and real successful athletes in
most cases do not rely on recovery
adaptive modalities such as NSAIDs such
as ice they actually did
a bit of work I'm familiar with uh
pretty directly or almost directly there
I'll keep the specifics out of this but
there was a very serious sports center
tons of amazing athletes at it and they
established a Recovery Center in there
and it was like ice bath and rest and
you got some nutrition and those heat
pads and those those Norm attack pants
the ones that push the fluid out of your
legs and what they've done they did a
few layers of statistical analysis and
they realized that typically the worst
athletes were the ones that used the
recovery center the most
another way to see it's not now that
doesn't mean that the recovery center
made the athletes worse but another way
to see it is the best athletes were
healthy the best athletes didn't need to
go use the ice and whatever which means
if you want to be a good athlete
thinking long term not like okay how do
I get my shoulder to calm down so I can
train it tomorrow and thinking long term
of how do I get the situation to really
heal so that I can ramp back up in a few
weeks to get amazing shorter gains once
again because that healthy actually
healthy not masked is what's going to
take you all the way now if it doesn't
if you've done all the recommendations
here and your shoulders still bothering
you I would seek a consult with a
licensed sports medicine doctor or
anyone in the Allied Health field either
if it's in person or through an internet
call whatever it is get some actual
medical attention but using these tips
you can help yourself a lot and you can
help end the scourge
that has just quite frankly destroying
our fucking communities children used to
run on the streets they used to play all
ages and races now what they're huddled
in their homes afraid of shoulder
impingement I say no more and if you're
with me hit that like button or some
YouTube shit I'll see you guys next time