hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I have a question for you
how good should your food taste if
you're into fitness and you have a mind
for weight control for making sure you
don't get too skinny or too fat at any
one point in time
how good should your food taste this is
a very pertinent question because how
good food is how tasty it is hugely
determines how much you weigh from
eating it
because a food doesn't taste very good
you eat much less of it in most cases or
rather you are prone to eat less of it
and if food is a really really fucking
amazing and tastes amazing you are more
likely to eat more of it
the biggest underlying cause of the
global obesity epidemic of modernity is
that food is really fucking tasty and
really cheap food is tastier than it's
ever been before and is cheaper relative
to time spent working and thus income
than it has ever been before so we're in
a situation of hyperpalatable
environments and thus if you just ate
all the food you thought was tasty until
you were full well gee whiz you might
end up really really out of shape so you
have to answer the question of how good
should the average food that I eat taste
it is up to me to pick that food how do
I do it best four points in this regard
first
on average in general your food should
taste good enough that you check a
couple of boxes first box is that you
can meet enough of it to meet the
nutritional needs of the phase that
you're in
so if your food is super super Bland you
hate eating it you're trying to maintain
a new high body weight after massing and
you just lose weight week after week
because you can't stuff yourself enough
for this awful food to get enough
calories your food needs to be tastier
second
you make sure you want to make sure that
you don't eat so much of your food
that it's too much for the phase that
you're in if you're on a fat loss phase
then you don't get to eat as much food
if all of your food is tasty the
temptation to eat too much of it is a
really really high and thus the
probability that you will not lose as
much fat as you could because your
calories are too high incrementally goes
up no good
lastly food is a big part of human
enjoyment and you should look to eat
food that is tasty enough that you do
get some pleasure out of it but not so
much pleasure that you end up overeating
like crazy so that's a really big deal
more specifically let's go phase by
phase in a muscle gain phase where
you're trying to gain weight on thus
muscle AKA bulking phase massing phase
bulker
I don't know what culture started that
some Europeans are like um Dr Mike
you're doing a balka I'm like what the
what other people I've heard fat loss
face called Cutters I'm doing a cutter
another guy I remember eating for him he
was like I'm doing a shredder phase and
I'm like like Shredder from the Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles that was a smiley
arbitrary I'm just being a dick in any
case
as you gain weight over time your hunger
tends to fall your body will fight you
and be like bro why are we gaining
weight this is fucking insane
you will get less and less hungry so in
order for you to continue to eat the
needed food and actually higher levels
of food because you have to uh make sure
you account for your increasing body
weight increasing thermogenic activity
from gaining weight
you're sort of in a situation where you
are eating you need to eat more food
than ever before but you're the least
hungry for food that you've ever been
than ever before
so what you have to do is adjust the
tastiness of that food and Ratchet it up
if you have tastier food a lot of this
you can do with the same macros through
seasonings and spices and cooking
methods
tons of healthy snacks and a few cheat
meals every now and again can make sure
your food is so tasty that you get
enough calories and you actually don't
burn out of your masking phase that
whole thing where like people do clean
masking with just oatmeal broccoli and
chicken is fucking insane but at the
very least just a good way to be
miserable for a longer portion of your
life than you'd ever want to be
number three in the maintenance phase
you could have a certain average level
of food tastiness that makes it so that
you have fun with food but also don't
gain or lose weight but you can also eat
periodic
streaks of more bland food to get your
weight to drop a little bit and periodic
streaks let's say Friday Saturday of
much more tasty fun food with your
friends gain a little bit of weight and
in the course of the average week or two
weeks those two roughly even out it's
your choice which one you want to do
just make sure that your weekly average
is relatively stable and if it's not you
got to eat some blander foods for longer
cool it on the cheat Foods or if it's
dropping too fast you have to eat some
tastier Foods in order to make sure it
doesn't drop as fast lastly in the fat
loss phase
as the fat loss phase gets gnarlier as
your diet fatigue accumulates over the
course of weeks and weeks and months and
months of dieting you have to
progressively eat counter-intuitively
blander and blander Foods because
remember
trying to keep your pleasure from food
in this midline level
good pleasure from food but not so much
that I'm tempted to eat too much or
suffer psychologically because the food
is amazing but I only get a little tiny
taste of it
when you get into your tail end of a fat
loss phase in your heart of hearts
you're going to want tastier food but
what you need is Bland or food so your
our logical person with a forebrain an
ability to plan for the future so plan
to eat blender foods and you're just
going to have a great time through your
diet here's the kicker as soon as your
fat loss diet is over and You Begin the
maintenance phase make sure you continue
to eat those very same Bland foods for
at least a week after that is over but
just raise the calories to maintenance
calories at the end of that week you're
going to be like man it's actually
pretty hard to eat this much food when
it's bland I'm not super hungry or
starving I could eat some tasty foods
but I'm really recovering pretty well
from this diet fatigue when you're able
to say that you can introduce slowly but
surely a few tastier and tastier items
such that as the maintenance phase
precedes your food tastiness the eating
goes up
and your body weight stays level the
entire time so that you're not redoing
or undoing rather the fat loss that you
experience during your fat loss phase
folks thank you so much for tuning in if
you have any questions please post them
below if you want Advanced material and
super insightful looks into my training
and other people's training behind a
teeny tiny paywall then you can get us
in our members area on YouTube that's a
really quick link that you can probably
click on right now on your screen and if
you want to go for the big upsell
there's the team full ROM Forum where
you can be on a team with myself and
Jared feather or tons of other people
get your Technique cued in get your
videos analyzed get your training and
your diet all sorted out huge 24 7 q a
forum hopefully we'll see you there if
not see you on YouTube and we'll see you
next time