to build bigger hamstrings you're going
to need both isolation exercises like
leg curl and compound exercises the best
hamstring isolation exercise in my
opinion is the seated light Cur a recent
study by myo and colleagues actually
compared the seated light curl to the
lying light Cur and in the hamstrings
the seated light curl produced
substantially more hypertrophy this
likely had to do with the fact that in a
seated light curl by flexing your hips
you're able to lengthen the hamstrings
more you can take this to the next level
by leaning forward during the SE light
curl a little bit more and further
lengthening the hamstring and thus
potentially getting more growth the
single best compound exercise for the
hamstrings is the Smith machine good
morning it is highly stable it is
lengthened partial friendly you can
react the weight at any point you don't
need much weight in order to make it
effective which gives it a slight Edge
over the RDL for example in terms of
time efficiency when you're Waring up
and most importantly it allows you to
lengthen the hamstrings very effectively
by keeping your knees back and pushing
your hips back throughout the whole
movement and it exposes them to plenty
of tension in that lengthened position
at the very bottom