[Music]
alright guys today it's finally gonna be
in the days I'm going to test my one rep
max is here on the channel
I think it's been since like 2016 since
I've actually tested what I can do on
the squat bench and deadlift I've done a
couple like heavy sets on the bench
press here on the channel but nothing
where I'm like really working up to
heavy weight and seen where I'm at
that's mostly because as many of you
guys know I sustained an injury many
years ago that's kind of still been
flagging me in recent years I feel like
I'm finally in a position to make myself
accountable get back to some heavy
strength training and I'm ready to test
my max it's now actually already did the
squat and bench press tests two days ago
and we're going to recap all that
footage in a little bit
so today I'm gonna be going to the gym
and hitting the deadlift I want to give
a shout out to Price Lewis for the
thumbnail idea on this video I saw him
upload a video a couple weeks ago and
thought it was kind of hilarious
so anyway shoutout to Bryce I'll have
his channel linked down below I'm gonna
get my pre-workout and y'all ready get
my pre-workout ready and then we're
gonna go smash the workout I'm super I'm
super excited for this today like the
last test day I was a little bit I don't
say more nervous than excited today I'm
just like ready to go kill it and I
haven't been this motivated for training
in like quite some time so super excited
to show you guys and recap how
everything goes today so for a max
deadlift pre-workout we need something
serious so we are gonna go with the Jeff
Nippert signature TV line prolific
pre-workout two scoops of this and then
for my pre-workout meal lately I've been
doing this protein for oats which is
basically just protein designed to put
an oat meal
so yeah let me get that ready this is
gonna be a pre-workout meal got the
protein for Oats oatmeal and then I got
a peach here and a Kiwi this cubies
actually a little bit a little bit hard
it's not I hope this standard but we're
gonna eat it anyway I like to have fruit
pre-workout because
for reasons actually I'm gonna talk
about in another video and I'm gonna go
two scoops of heaping two scoops
alright turn it down this and then I
will check in with you guys over at the
gym so the day I'm here testing my maths
deadlift first time in three years the
two platforms
had a big flood so they were like soaked
in water so you're not allowed to use
them today Sammy we're gonna make a
makeshift set up over here with a couple
of yoga mats and we're going to make it
happen regardless I'm gonna do a really
thorough warm-up today gonna do a bunch
of foam rolling on my upper back I'm
gonna work out my hips a little bit
there's a little too tight from the
squats I'm guessing then I'm gonna
progressively pyramid my way up to my
max weight so I'll probably just start
with like 135 for 8 then I'll probably
do 225 for 4 or 5 315 365 and then once
I get to 405 I'll probably just be doing
singles from there forward something
like that I might skip a couple of those
weight marks depending on how I'm
feeling that's generally how I'm gonna
set it up and I will check me you guys
once I get some weight on let's go
[Music]
that was 475 actually felt real easy now
I'm wondering should I go straight to
500 I think I want to lift in between
because like it's been so long since 500
so I'm gonna go for 85 and then I'm
gonna try for 5 depending on how that
goes
let's get it
[Music]
so that was just 4:45 first of all
that's like a 3-year PR for me so I'm
actually really stoked with the Hat
the thing about sumo is it's always slow
off the floor breasts conventional is
usually a little more snappy off the
floor and then slow to kind of uncurl
the back at the top so that's normal
it was slow off the ground I just
watched it back but throughout the
concentric there was no real sticking
point so I decided I'm actually gonna
leave it at that just because I think
500 is a milestone I wanted to hit today
but ultimately it's an arbitrary number
so that rep I watched it back from two
different angles it was a little slow
off the floor and I do have straps on
and I'm not accustomed to lifting that
kind of weight so I'm gonna leave it at
485 for today I'm satisfied with that
and then in a couple months when I test
again I'm very confident that I'll be
well over 500 I'm going to finish off
this leg workout actually I'm gonna do a
little bit of machine squats today just
because I max out on barbell squats two
days ago so we're going to hit
machine squats four sets of beats 10
then I'm gonna do some glute ham raises
just to finish off the hamstrings a
little bit of calves and then that is
gonna be a wrap for the workout I'm
gonna go back home analyze all the
footage and then give you guys an update
on the other two lifts so I'll check
meet you guys back up so I actually just
uploaded the clips here to my computer
myself I'm gonna go through my squat in
my bench maxes from Tuesday now some of
you guys might be wondering what I did
leading into the max test quickly gonna
go through this I basically did five
modifications to my normal training the
first one is that I reduced my training
volume a little bit on the accessory
lifts in the week leading up to the max
testing I also did it like a sort of
practice day where I worked up to about
90% on all three of the lifts on one day
and I just did this to build confidence
and see how that relatively heavy but
yet not still max weight would move so
two days before my initial max test
another thing I did was a walk out with
405 on the squat and the reason I did
this is because it has been over three
years since I put that kind of weight on
my back fourth thing Trisha Lee I did
increase my carbs just the day before I
test it and then I made sure I always
had a full rest day on the day before I
did any max testing so on the first
testing day on Tuesday I woke up 163
pounds on nose so let's start with the
squat I warmed up as I normally would
I'm so I got to about 365 did that for a
single that moved super well and just
gradually did loading increases from
there now you guys may notice I'm
squatting a high bar here which I
basically do because it allows me to
maintain a more upright lifting posture
which takes a little bit of pressure off
my lower back but it also causes the
squat to become much more me dominant
I'm so I'm actually it's significantly
weaker with the high bar position what
I'm gonna do in my next training cycle
like starting next week is I'm gonna
transition to low bar because just by
shifting the bar down a couple vertebrae
on my back it allows my posture to be a
little bit more forward and so that
allows my hip musculature let my glue to
my adductors to get so much more
involved in the lift so here it is the
big 405 overall I'm super happy with how
this
moved and even though like for someone
of my level of training advancement it
might not necessarily be like anything
to write home about I'm actually really
proud of this weight because this is a
weight that has been kind of like the
mental barrier in my mind for a while
now and so being able to execute it
pretty easily feels like a weight lifted
off my shoulders in a sense it's almost
like I don't know if you guys have a
weight that it's just like any time you
load that on the bar you feel a little
bit nervous for whatever reason 405 was
like that weight for me
so yeah just looking at the lift here
one thing I would note is that my speed
on the descent was slower than I'd like
ideally I think that's more so a
confidence thing than anything ideally
with a max squat you want to find a
middle ground between just letting the
weight kind of freefall and doing like a
slow eccentric rep so somewhere in the
middle you're gonna find that balance
where you still get that bounce out of
the bottom but yet you're not falling so
fast that you lose control and by the
same token you're not going so slowly
that you start to unnecessarily fatigue
yourself so happy with 405 for now
alright so then after that we moved on
to the benchpress
now this was interesting because I was
actually this close to scrapping this
max attempt day because for whatever
reason the benchpress just wasn't
feeling good that day the first couple
of warmups the bar was like slightly
warped so it was like moving back and
forth in my wrist and then for whatever
reason all the warm-up sets sets we're
just feeling really slow off my chest so
I was gonna scrap it but I said you know
what I'm gonna keep myself accountable
and see basically what I could do on an
off day and I think that's a pretty good
idea like if you have something written
on paper that you plan to do you should
go in and execute it and not grab at
whatever excuse it is that you can find
on that day and at worst you just figure
out okay this is about what I can do on
a day that I'm not at a hundred percent
basically anyways it turns out I worked
up to three hundred and forty-five
pounds it ended up moving much more
smoothly than my warm-ups did and
sometimes this is the way it is like
sometimes the warm-ups will suck and
then you'll get to the heavy stuff and
it'll also suck and sometimes you'll get
to the heavy stuff and it'll actually
move really well and luck
it was the latter case for me on this
day I ended up going up to 350 and I
don't think my butt popped up I do use a
lot of hip drive and a lot of leg drive
on the bench press but I'm pretty sure
that my my glutes were down it's kind of
hard to tell from this angle one thing
you guys may also notice is my heels
kind of come up after the lift off and
then when I go to drive it off my chest
I Drive my heels down into the ground as
hard as I can and that generates a ton
of leg drive for me now my power lifters
who are watching I'm actually not 100%
sure what the rule is I know that your
heels have to be planted at least in the
IPF but I'm not sure if they need to be
planted throughout the whole lift like
from the point of liftoff
or if it's after the start command or
after the press command so I'm not a
hundred percent sure if this would be
meat legal or not but in any case pretty
happy with it as a as a gym lift and the
other thing you might notice that I do
here is I sink the bar more into my
chest a lot of people say that this
isn't legal but the technical rule is
you're allowed to sink it down into your
chest it's just that once the bar has
sunk it has to become motionless and
then the referee will give you the press
command and then at that point you can't
allow the bar to sink further into your
chest so it can't sink twice
you can only sink once and then once you
get the press command you have to press
it straight up from there
I do think I've probably got like
something like 365 in me on a good day
but I'm going to leave that until I
finished my next training cycle
definitely think I'll be able to bust
out a solid PR there and I'm gonna shut
out my Instagram here I documented a few
of these lifts on my Instagram story and
that's where I'll do a lot more of the
behind the scenes of my training so if
you're not following me on Instagram go
check it out and alright up next the
deadlift so you guys already know how I
feel about that I'm curious what you
guys think you think I should have gone
for the 500 ton deadlift having seen the
485 or was I smart to be a little bit
more patient a little bit more
conservative a couple things to note on
the deadlifts here first thing I am
using straps the main reason for this is
that my back injury was asymmetrical so
it was on my left side and that was the
side that I always had the underhand
grip on so I'm still a little bit wary
of doing the alternate grip and I
the hook grip that hurts my thumbs and
I'm not strong enough to do a double
overhand without hook grip so I'm just
gonna use the straps for now and I'm
content enough it it doesn't technically
count it's still a much safer way for me
to lift
I also pull sumo longtime viewers know I
pull sumo significantly stronger in sumo
from a biomechanical perspective there's
not a significant difference between
pulling sumo versus pulling conventional
in terms of muscle activation
differences the lifts are actually very
similar and the range of motion
difference between sumo and conventional
obviously sumo has a slightly shorter
range of motion but there's a number of
reasons why this probably isn't
significant in practice not the least of
which is that most of the strongest dead
lifters in the world actually pull
conventional so if sumo was giving you
like a huge advantage it's definitely
not showing up at the highest level of
powerlifting another thing that I do is
I take my grip straight down and the
reason for that is that the shortest
distance between the short the shoulder
and the bar is going to be with the arms
straight down a lot of people make the
error of going way too close or way too
wide which is only gonna shorten your
apparent arm length now for me is
someone who already has short arms that
makes me a very good bench presser
because it reduces the range of motion
that the bar has to travel it actually
is a major disadvantage in the deadlift
because my hips have to drop lower in
order to reach the bar so to kind of
make up for that I make sure I take the
shortest path to gripping the bar which
is like straight down so anyway 45 is
we're on that now on the deadlift I know
that's going to go up in the next couple
months super excited about where
everything is at all so I did a video a
couple months ago basically outlining
two different ways that you can test
your maxes you can do an AMRAP test or
you can do a max single test like I did
here today I'll link that down below if
you'd like a little more information on
that and like I said I'm going to do
another video outlining my recovery
process from my injury and my entire
approach around that next weekend so
make sure you stay tuned for that if you
enjoyed the video please leave me a
thumbs up don't forget to subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here in the next video