stop being an with your Barb
[Music]
R doctor back here straight out the
hospital after a successful heart
transplant where I indeed was successful
at transplanting a heart that I found in
a fridge that I looked into because I
was roaming the hospital as a real
doctor went past security talk my way in
as you can see I'm relatively good at
talking and found the heart threw it at
some guy called him a name and I guess
that makes it a successful heart
transplant as far as I am concern and I
am indeed a real doctor that's how those
things work so I'm here to talk about
the barble row one the big five
according to Mark ripo the only exercise
you need to be doing for your back Al
onside chins which H to a certain extent
for many people that could be somewhat
true but an overall effective lift lift
that is easy to load a lift that is easy
to do because all you need is a barow
and for a lot of you out there who may
not actually go to a commercial gym and
just have access to a barble or may have
times where you only have access to a
barble a fantastic way to get your back
thicker more Deads and turn heads around
whenever you walk into any public place
the barl row is one of those lifts that
is often absolutely butchered for some
reason and I'm not seeing butcher in the
gy fails sort of way but actually shown
in ways that I don't think make it very
effective I've seen plenty of videos
where chatr are being held as a way for
you to absolutely blow up your back and
get thicker with the citations given for
those claims being literally nothing
Just Jack people yanking a bar and
claiming that that's what got their
backs thicker
because I don't know they they just
claim it um but in reality when we look
at certain boxes that we know we need to
take to actually make exercise super
effective or hypertrophy those boxes are
often not Tak here's how you going
perfect your barbell
road so let's forget about penley Rose
and their roow being some insane
accessory to the deadlift for a second
that's often a claim that I hear being
made when it comes to really like being
explosive off the floor with your roll
and not controlling the Ecentric much
and essentially being somewhat scopy
with your form it's the idea that oh
this will carry to your deadlift because
you're pulling something explosively off
the floor but last I checked the
deadlift is not meant to be a back
exercise where you're pulling with your
biceps and your back uh and it's
actually a hip hinge movement where
other muscle groups are doing most of
the work so the idea that you pulling
something explosively off the floor and
slamming it on your chest is somehow
going to transfer to your dead lft
strength off the floor h i don't buy it
if you're using the b roll to build your
back a few things you can number one
let's eliminate the yanking off the
floor explosively as if you're sort of
super serious strength train so now that
that's out of the way let's see how you
can set up for the perfect Row first
thing you want to do is slightly extend
the range of motion for the lift itself
so you get a bit more work along muscle
length so take a 45lb plate or a 20 Kil
plate if you're a fellow European put it
on the floor stand on it and and then
just essentially that lift the bar up
from that point onwards just let the bar
as you would do on an RDL perform an RDL
and stop at the point where your torso
is is approximately 90Â° parallel to the
gr now at that point you're ready to
roll you are ready to roll hey pun
unintended so control the entry get a
nice stretch it's okay if your upper
back slightly rounds no problem on
holder and then just bring the bar all
the way back up and repeat again
focusing on getting a nice stretch I'm
not controlling the entric and keeping
things pretty strict allowing me to note
that as the set gets harder the there
may be a few reps towards the end where
you slightly Jer the bar off to finish
the rep or get to that mid-range of the
repetition and just do partials of low
muscle lights which is totally fine but
don't make this a whole body exercise
where you're essentially lifting a bunch
of the weight with your hip ex tenses or
whatever and just focus on lifting the
weight with your back as much as
possible I would personally recommend
the youing give length and partials of
go on the barbell roll specifically and
actually take the majority of your sets
to the point where you cannot complete
any partial reps and long muscle L with
the added deficit you're getting a bit
more Rage of motion you're able to get a
nicer stretch on your back and that
should allow you to potentially explore
unexplored territory as far as backings
go so just because somebody with a thick
and big bag is doing a bunch of very
very heavy rows that look impressive but
the overall AG of motion is somewhat
short and it seems like the majority of
the work they're doing is at Short
muscle lengths or mid short muscle
lengths then i' recommend you to not
take that at face value or just their
physique or the strength as proof that
that's the best way to do row because in
reality it's likely that that individual
is aside from being a genetic freak or
edes or whatever is that they're doing a
bunch of other work as well unless it's
so much fun for you it doesn't make
sense to go with the cheat less strict
more Yankee roll uh route versus keeping
things strict and making sure that you
have that Solid Gym eate that we've
talked about before yes nothing means
anything but you have to have a
compelling reason for doing things in a
specific way at least in my opinion if
you want to be taken seriously if you're
just doing it because you're saw it and
you will not listen to The sence Geek
telling and do it the other way just
because you're having immediate reaction
to the W sence or the word evidence
based or rever at I'm not fully on board
with
that last but not least you can also try
rowing with a camber bar if you have one
available but a traditional Olympic
barbone 45 lb plate for a deficit and
relatively strict approach to rows with
some space towards the end of the set
for a tiny bit of cheating I think will
get you much more out of the exercise
again in the context of maximizing hyri
feet than many of the traditional row
variations that we see so that's that
for me stop bastardizing your barbell
row stop just blindly following things
and just doing things because people
have just been doing things in the
specific way fix your role get you some
more back gains and I will hopefully see
you from a distance because you will now
have a huge thick back that can be
spotted from anywhere in the world and
for that viewer you're welcome I'll see
you guys next time don't forget Dr pack
code rasco appal 10% off free barble
roll tutorial ebook with every order is
not a thing and you shouldn't be asking
for such a thing 10% off is already
enough it's just ID code enter it the
RPA get 10% of your order help me get
closer to my dream of owning an actual
bear that I can ride in the city where I
live in versus driving a car like an
absolute peasant signed up with this for
making Bears allowed to be used as
Vehicles obviously treated in the
outmost respect and then return to the
appropriate the environment that they
need to be and obviously with their
consent this job is some backf flying I
can all ready see the not ready anys I
apologize I love animals I have two cats
that I am a big big big fan of and I
will die for them I would never ride a
bear or cause any animal harm other than
the meat I eat because hey moral
relative is am I right but called me
tastes good I'm sorry vegans but hey
[Music]