I would have failed
in terms of I couldn't get it all the
way to my butt right but I did a little
bit of a like a little bit of a shrug
kind of thing or I popped my hips a
little bit to get the weight up
should I have not done that and just
kind of cut it or like yes yeah good
question so in the future correct yeah
we count it today but you also know that
no more reps in the tank after that no
so I would say that you probably could
have gotten it anyway if you hadn't done
the shrug if you just fucking tried a
little bit before okay but which is why
I'm not gonna be like that was just
fucking 12 and not 13 man yeah yeah but
yes in the future generally get it done
with this clean of a technique as you
can within reason I think I was just
thinking like get the weight up get
rather than like yes prioritizing the
technique first I prioritize getting the
rep first you're saying prioritize the
technique first and then the Reps will
happen or they won't okay okay all right