[Music]
hi guys flourish all at Renaissance
period ization
and today's episode is sponsored by
Bob's Red Mill we are gonna do a roasted
chickpea snack today so these are the
dried chickpeas you probably have used
canned chickpeas a lot so of I until I
used the dried ones the flavor is so
much better you have to try it to
believe me but they make a huge
difference when you use those so we're
gonna start with dried chickpeas today
and we're gonna end up making a really
crunchy hear the crunch snack and what's
so great about these is if you have seen
these at stores they are just a really
expensive snack item and it doesn't have
to be you can make these at home you can
make them savory if you like that you
can make them sweet this is a sweet one
this is a chocolate peanut butter one
you guys know how much I like chocolate
and peanut butter together so that's
what we're gonna make today but you
could easily do onion powder garlic
powder just plain salt I mean there's so
many different ways you can use olive
oil you can use coconut oil which is
what we're gonna do today for the
sweeter version but these are just
really easy so let's go ahead and get to
work the first thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna take the dried chickpeas and
we're just gonna add them to your slow
cooker this is 1 cup of dried chickpeas
and we're adding 3 cups of water so
however you do it just keep that ratio
the same 1 cup dried to 3 cups of water
so we're gonna add the water right into
the crock pot and then this is some
baking soda the baking soda is said to
negate the sort of gastrointestinal
issues that you might have had from
beans so it's really important to throw
that in it'll make a difference in the
finished product it won't upset your
stomach if you're sensitive to beans it
won't upset your stomach as much if you
throw that in for the cooking part
put this in our slow cooker for three
hours on high all right so our chickpeas
have come out of the slow cooker i
drained all the water off and now we
need to let them dry for a good hour so
what I like to do is take a cooling rack
and put a towel nice absorbent towel
over the top and then just let the
chickpeas hang out here and that way if
you didn't have that cooling rack
underneath it would just kind of sit
there
you know the towels gonna get wet and
it's just gonna sit there on a wet towel
which isn't gonna do a whole lot for you
so you want to put them on a towel and
have that air circulation going
underneath that'll keep it from getting
too wet but at the same time if you you
know you want these to get really nice
and dry spread them out don't want to
stack on top of each other too crowded
or anything you want to give them plenty
of room for air to circulate
if you check on them you know in a half
an hour and they you know the towel is
like completely soaked or something
switch it out switch it out for a
different towel I'm gonna Pat the top of
these with paper towels too to get the
tops of them but the goal is just to get
these nice and dry cuz we want a really
crispy snack and so if these aren't
really really dry it's gonna be mushy
nobody wants a mushy snack like this you
want that crunch and the way that we get
that is to get these really really dried
out
so our chickpeas have now hung out and
dried for about an hour now we're going
to transfer them to just a parchment
lined baking sheet spread them out on
here in a single layer and then we're
gonna stick these in the oven at 400 for
30 minutes but this is important every
10 minutes you just want to go in and
give the pan a shake just to even out
the sides so that they'll bake evenly
let's check out our chickpeas
we've been shaking them regularly drying
them out they look great we're going to
carefully put these into our Bowl and
then some coconut oil here some vanilla
and salt we're gonna mix that together
and we're gonna pour this right over top
of those warm chickpeas those all
together so good these guys go back to
their pan all that oil on there and now
we're gonna add powdered peanuts and
chocolate you kind of just like gently
move them around to coat them my
chickpeas are great because you can do
savory chickpeas you can do sweet ones
like these you do all kinds of things
they're gonna go back in the oven just
for like five to seven minutes just to
crisp them up that last a little bit so
we're gonna put them back in for five to
seven minutes then we're gonna turn the
oven off and just leave the door ajar
you know like about that much just to
that point where it stays open turn the
oven off and just let them stay in there
cuz again the key to this whole thing is
that they are super super dry if they
have any moisture in them whatsoever
when you try to store them they're gonna
be soggy which is gross and here are the
finished chickpeas so they're nice and
crunchy you can hear that crunch sound
that's what you want store these in an
airtight container in the fridge they're
just a really nice crunchy snack and you
don't have to pay a fortune
then get them at the grocery store just
make them yourself
[Music]