first start your motorcycle with a
decent stimulus oh three reps in reserve
get a good pump maybe get a bit sore and
then recover on time for next time so if
you hit it Monday by Thursday you hit
chest again you should be nice and
recovered ready to hit it hard again
every week you want to add a little bit
of something add some load or add a rep
or two to keep the Reps in reserve
either stable so three and then next
week three and then three or my personal
preference keep it falling slightly so
three and then three and then two and
then two and then one and then one and
the zero and the zero and then you delay
you can also add sets to keep the pumps
really good and making sure you're
really tiring on disrupting the muscle
but you should almost certainly adjust
your volume as needed and generally not
all all adjustments will be up but on
average from the beginning of the muzzle
to the end you'll go up for a while and
you'll probably Plateau for a bit and
and then add only uh reps and load at
the end