hey guys dr. Mike is real here for the
last lecture in the training principles
course lecture number nine a lecture to
wrap up and get a lot of really good
implications from the training
principles basically what are we gonna
do now that we know them and this
lecture is called principled thinking so
we're going to talk about a couple of
things one thing we're going to talk
about is using the principles as guides
versus as strict rules we're gonna talk
the difference between creativity and
going outside the bounds to make unique
training programs that work really well
and Concordance kind of staying within
the lines we're gonna talk about how to
manage that the best we're gonna talk
about how to make use of the principles
rankings because remember the principles
are not equally all the same effect some
are more important than others and then
we're gonna talk about how to evaluate
training programs either ones that you
have written other people have written
in light of the principles so it's a
really good idea to use the principles
not so much as a rules which is why
they're not called the rules of training
more so as guides right if you have a
mountain that you want to traverse a
local guide right who's been living
there for his whole life may be able to
for a fee take you on the fastest and
safest way around the mountain can you
still get around the mountain by going
at it yourself yes you can go the slower
way and that ways not so much wrong but
it might not be as safe or as efficient
as the faster way so if you don't follow
the training principles are you
guaranteed to have no success well if
the mountain is gnarly enough if it's
super high peak and there's avalanches
and there's snow-capped mountain and
there's lots of really nasty rock faces
and there's landslides and stuff yeah
you may never actually make it across
the mountain if you take a bad enough
but most routes will have you succeed
just to different degrees that's going
to be less efficient etc you still may
get to your goal so for example if you
use the training principles optimally
within a year you may burn thirty pounds
of fat put on ten pounds of muscle and
really transform your physique in a
visually stunning way if you don't
really Concordat the principles you may
get the same results but it could take
you two or three years you'll still get
there now if you want to win the mr.
Olympia contest you may have to use most
of the training principles most of the
time because that's that gnarly mountain
not everybody makes it to the mr.
Olympia contest not everybody wins and
you have to do your absolute very best
to succeed so thinking of the principles
as guides is probably better than
thinking of them as strict rules like if
you violate a strict rule the
implication is that you get no success
at all it's simply impossible to do and
still succeed thinking of them as guides
is it's just better if you use them and
it's much better and it's so much better
that for some goals that are big enough
and long-term enough you may not
actually ever reach them unless you use
the principles alright so when we look
at each principle and because it is a
guide there's no such thing really as
violating specificity I've used that
term in the in the past just as a
shorthand for the following we say a
term violates when we say a training
practice violate specificity which means
that if we have a spectrum of exactly
perfectly concordance with specificity
and doesn't Concorso Fiss 'ti at all
yeah only this extreme point really
violates specificity but there's a
spectrum there will you do an okay job
or a not-so-great job and then a better
job and then an excellent job and then
almost a perfect job of the specificity
principle so you don't so much violate
specificity in most cases discreetly but
we could look at your training and we
say you know it could be more specific
and thus more beneficial training could
you be more overloading you could do a
better job of overload as opposed to the
current job which isn't that great so
these things are best seen kind
Spectrum's as opposed to exact finite
yes or no category right so you don't
really check yes I hit specificity or no
I did not you more or less give yourself
kind of like a letter grade or like a
poor attention to specificity or to
let's say fatigue management poor or
good or great and as many greats as you
have the better but if you have some
greats of goods that's still a good
training plan if everything is poor it's
not going to be a very good training
plan this brings us into our next
conversation about what I'd like to call
bounded creativity if you over read the
training principles you may start to
think that they're exact rules and that
you're basically if you get creative
with a training program is you just end
up making the program worse that the
only kind of programs that work or
robotic programs that are exactly
aligned to the principles well an
interesting analogy here is kind of like
a cookbook a cookbook is of a lot of
variety of recipes based on the
principles of you know proper cooking
and palatability can you follow them
exactly and get a good result yes can
you make some diversions and get a food
that tastes great absolutely right if
you put a little bit more paprika in or
you do a little less spice you can
tailor the food to your needs and it's
still quite delicious interesting
example that fits well with exercise and
sports science is you know if you
replace the sugar with Splenda it could
lower the calories at on and still be
super tasty right but too much diversion
is usually not a good thing so you want
to be creative but you want to have some
boundaries you know if you have too much
diversion of a recipe you end up you
know with ice cream and your broccoli
right better way to phrase that would be
broccoli in your ice cream you might
want to keep those two things separate
too much creativity is not so great if
you don't think there's so much thing is
too there's such a thing as too much
creativity in cooking just have your
four-year-old make you his favorite dish
assuming that he doesn't burn the house
down it's not going to be anything that
resembles food it's gonna be a pairing
of really weird stuff that tastes like
crap so it's a good idea to be creative
being creative is great but you have
to use the principles to make a soft
boundary around that creativity so you
see you know we got a couple of ways to
change things a couple of ways to do
things but if we move too far outside of
that central area of principled training
then we'll probably get into things that
don't work as well remember it's a soft
boundary because we can't ever say you
know if you're inside the circle of
specificity you're good if you're
outside that's it you're wrong and
you're training backfires and you blow
up in a nuclear explosion it's a soft
boundary so it's kind of a spectrum the
further you move out for a while it
doesn't make much difference but if you
move up really far it's kind of a bad
deal and it doesn't work so well anymore
right so you might still get results if
you go really far outside the boundary
but it's better that you stay within it
and be creative so being creative is
great but it's a bounded sort of
creativity right it's like what makes a
birthday party really fun could it be a
surprise party
sure could you have clowns at your party
totally you know what about if so so who
you is cake good or cupcakes good well
both cake and cupcakes are within that
circle of things that are acceptable at
a birthday party what if we say okay
okay we're gonna have dirt literally
gonna eat dirt and there's gonna be no
guests only sad face clowns and it's
gonna be hundreds of them well now your
party is so irregular there's no longer
fun so while it's good to be creative
it's got to be within what we consider
fun and that circle of what encloses all
things that are fun isn't exactly just
like this is fun and anything outside is
not different strokes for different
folks and also there's kind of a
boundary you know um is uh is eating
dirt not fun yeah almost distinctly for
everyone
what about like clean cupcakes Oh
cupcakes that have really low fat and
mostly artificial sweetener and high
protein like a lot of people think
they're great but a lot of people think
they're mad so maybe that's on that
borderline and then definitely super fun
or the real kind of cupcakes which are
also super fattening right so if you
stick mostly within that central area
you can be very well creative within it
same with the training principles how
you program overload is totally up to
you in the sense that it still works but
is as you get a little too creative
start using the BOSU ball over here
right or plyo jumps instead of
wotz for hypertrophy that level of
effect starts to go down
you're being so creative you're outside
of the boundaries of what the principles
kind of delineate for us now with that
taken in mind how important is it to
Concord with the principles well you got
to remember the rankings specificity is
the first and most important training
principle and to reiterate from earlier
discussions on the first lecture of why
here's why let me describe to you
excellent power lifting program it's
really hard to do it gets harder over
time sweet
it has programmed D loads and like days
of active rest phases cool we got four
together although we got fatigue
management it made sure to have a
pulsatile training structure structure
we have SRA it makes use excellent use
of variation it's not always the same
stuff and it attends to individual
differences all those things and on
average you run 20 miles a week by the
way it's a running program no matter all
the principles were correct but the only
one that was different with specificity
we have a great program designed for
marathon running if we apply to
powerlifting it's gonna be terrible the
worst possible program that could check
off all the other principles and still
suck specificity is the most important
principle by far because it literally
bounds all of the other ones in every
other principle has to go back and go
okay is this training specific to the
sport yes now that a specific how're you
gonna apply variation how we're gonna
apply phase potentiation all right
specificity is the most important it
always needs to have a good check mark
maybe even a great check mark overload
and fatigue management have to at least
be good in order for a program to work
well if you're not presenting any
overload you're not gonna make gains for
longer fatigue manages completely ignore
they're gonna fall apart sooner or later
right the lateral principles after those
big three specificity overload imagine
runner hit are not new
as important and you don't have to pay
attention a ton to them on little it
unless you have two points clear one is
that the first three are at least well
applied it's not the best idea to help
someone with their SRA if you're not
quite sure if their specificity is good
or if you're not quite sure if they're
over load application is good you've got
to make sure that all the first three
are really checked off the list it's
like trying to order dessert before
you've chosen your actual meal go ahead
and order your meal first and then worry
about dessert after that okay because
they're not gonna ship well unless you
skip the meal it's not gonna work to
have you know nothing for the first meal
none for dessert you you got to make
sure that you first get the big stuff
going and do a really good job at it
because that's what's gonna change your
program the most that's what's gonna
make it more or less effective than most
secondly when the athletes are no longer
ranked beginners is when you can use the
more advanced training principles why
because if you try to implement too many
of the advanced training principles and
be a real big stickler on them the
training for beginners can be burdensome
ly complicated for example if using base
potentiation a ton with beginners their
training will change periodically
they're still learning the ropes they're
still learning how stuff goes at the
beginner level at the fundamental level
if you're altering things too often for
advanced athletes and that might be
great but for beginners are still try to
figure out how stuff works and
especially if you're helping beginners
will learn the training principles they
can build their own programs just have
them make sure to check out specificity
or low fatigue management are you
training for what you think you're
training yes great are you training hard
and harder over time yes great are you
taking breaks every now and again to
bring it on fatigue if the answer is all
three to those is great then it's gonna
be several years into training where
they need to attend to all those other
ones to really start to make further
gains so just to wrap that up focus on
the most important three principles
first later as time allows and as the
individual becomes more advanced you can
focus to the latter principles if the
first ones are still attended to
now so anytime you have a program in
front of you whether you wrote it or
you're considering using it or something
like that you can go through what's
called the principles test to make sure
that it's a good program at least in
theory here's how you do it
number one you write out a list of all
the principles run specificity over two
although three fatigue management etc
etc etc okay great you got that list you
go through the program with that list in
front of you and you rate each
concordance of the principle as poor
good or great right so you look at
specificity and you look at the program
and look okay it's a powerlifting
program it's a little weird bodybuilding
stuff in here a little bit of running
too but it's got plenty of power for
yourself I'm gonna call it good right
you just say good or something like that
or you know number two one two three
something like that go through and read
all point number three relates to our
last slide that we talked about you want
to make sure that you value the first
three principles more highly than the
others so they you bold them or make
them bigger if you're doing a point
structure you got to add up more points
for those so every single ranking for
the first couple needs they count for
more every bad ranking count for less or
something like that okay and then see
how the program stacks up to another
program you've done before or your
average program and easy way to do this
numerically is to go like this if the
program ranks a poor on any principle
you rate it a negative seven okay your
soul all right I got ya so negative
seven for specificity a zero if it ranks
okay for specificity and a positive
seven if it ranks great for specificity
why seven because there's seven training
principles negative six if it's a really
crappy overload zero if it's okay
overload and plus six if it's great
overload and so on and so forth up until
you get individual differences and it's
negative one zero positive one and so
you can do a different kind of scaling
but it has to reflect the fact that the
more important principles the first
couple are weighted more heavily than
the others
then you Ray
each one of those you Circle which point
structure you're giving it you go
through and you add up all the points at
the end your average program one that's
decent is gonna score zero right because
everything cancels out it's got as many
negatives as positive at zero a program
which scores an average negative score
don't do that program the program sucks
right and a program that scores an
average positive score you compare it to
other programs you've evaluated which
also have positive scores and pick the
one that has the most so if you're
looking at some programs let's say
you've got Westside template you've got
five three one you've got the juggernaut
method you have some other weird super
futuristic program you're looking at
rank all of them get the chiquita rank
them all add up all the points for each
one and see which one scores the most
it'll be you know like you know one
scores a fifteen whether scores a
negative six one scores a two or one
scores of 31 well the 31 is probably
gonna be your program and if you don't
believe that the scores are adding up
look through why you added up all the
points to be like I know this program
really hits the first three really well
and it does a good job on the other ones
too well clearly it's probably the
better program and of course that's just
theoretical you gotta try use the
program in your application of
individual differences is gonna be a
really good point what we're getting at
here is once you have done that analysis
method is you've answered the question
of how well does this program can core
to the training principles because if
you just look and here's a huge point if
you just look at programs as mains if
you're off to an unfortunate start
because you can we receive questions
like this all the time I receive them
all the time on Facebook hey what do you
think of the this in that program what
do you think of that in this program I
can give you my thoughts but really I'm
just giving you a lot of
unfortunately because I can't can I I
can comprehensively analyze a program
but you have no idea how I did that the
only thing you learn is dr. Mike doesn't
like this in that program but he loves
this other program but names of programs
change all the time there's new program
coming out every month with a different
name what are you gonna do simply send
me another Facebook message say hey what
about this well what about that well
what if I don't respond what if I'm
super busy what if I drop off the face
of the earth what if you're a personal
trainer we have our own clients to
attend to and you need answers quick you
need good answers that's how come a
principled evaluation of a program makes
you not have to
what it's called at all I can evaluate a
program without knowing its name what
suffers matter fact I don't want to know
its name its ear irrelevant program
should be just judged based on their
criteria of how well do they concordant
principles if it's a good program I
don't care what's called I don't care
for my mortal enemy wrote it it's a damn
good program that makes sense so we've
got to make sure we stay objective and
at the same time use this to evaluate
our own programs and say you can write
your own program and then go back and
try to read it or have one of your
friends who's also educated in this
stuff rate your program and he goes man
your program really doesn't not that
great because you screwed up specificity
you look at it you're like yep sure did
that sucks let me go back to square one
you can do this for your own programs
you can do this other people well
programs that they write and if you're
looking for a program to do which means
either designing your own or purchasing
another your evaluation of multiple
competitor programs can come back and
based on principle application which one
does better awesome the reason the
numerical way is good is just cuz
getting the feelings for programs can
you know if a program really screws up
phase potentiation and you really hate
it because you really like phase
potentiation but it does such a much
better job and everything else that
another program that you kind of like
and maybe it's by an author you really
like you got to get a feel of this one
program is great and the other one sucks
but their feelings aren't accurate turns
out one scores a forty and the other one
scores you know a plus five man the
forty is probably better even though
you're like hoppin at risk who's a phase
potentiation well here you go here's a
last little option you can so three
options you can accept the program as
isn't running you can reject the program
and choose another or better yet you can
take a program whether it's yours or
someone else's modify it in the areas in
which it's deficient let's say it's
cruising phase potentiation a lot fix
that fix the phase potentiation don't
muck with anything else make sure
everything else is still good and then
you have a new and improved better
program folks that's all I have for
today see you later later in the more
advanced courses where we're gonna be
taking these training principles and
deriving recommendations for specific
sports and applications we're gonna have
some of our tactical training we're
gonna have some about strength and power
spork strongman powerlifting
building endurance sport etc etc etc
folks take care and we'll see you next
time
[Music]
you