[Music]
losing fat and building muscle at the
same time it's what everyone wants and a
lot of people say it just isn't possible
but that's because a lot of people don't
read scientific literature in reality
dozens of studies have repeatedly shown
that body recomposition is not only
possible but expected given how common
it is a 2015 study showed that
resistance trained young men and women
following a heavy weight training
program lost fat and built muscle over
the course of eight weeks especially
when eating a higher protein diet now
this study wasn't without limitation
like the short duration measurement
reliability of the bod pod and possible
compliance issues but it is just one of
many studies showing that recomposition
is common but before we get our hopes up
too much it does seem that really
meaningful body recomposition
mainly happens under four circumstances
beginners detrained lifters the
overweight or obese and juicers
beginners who want to build muscle and
lose fat concurrently should do this
being a moderate caloric deficit eat a
high-protein diet and get progressively
stronger in the gym if you've skipped
the weights for several weeks to months
you're in a good spot to recount because
of muscle memory basically when you stop
training muscle control center is called
Maya nuclei stick around so as soon as
you start lifting again Maya nuclei can
ramp up muscle protein synthesis much
faster if you're overweight or obese
there's simply enough body fat to serve
as fuel for the energetically costly
muscle building process so even though
you may be eating in a caloric deficit
fat burning can help support muscle
growth the effect of anabolic steroids
is similar to muscle memory they help
muscle fibres gain more nuclei and
faster so what about for more
experienced trainees where these four
categories don't apply well in 2011
garthen colleagues showed that even
elite level athletes were able to gain
lean mass and lose body fat over a two
to three month period granted
recomposition was mostly seen in females
perhaps due to a higher starting body
fat and while the athletes were
classified as elite in the respect of
sports football volleyball hockey etc
they may not have been the most highly
resistance trained so maybe a bit of
newbie stuff was going on here - so what
do more highly advanced guys who want
a leaner and more muscular physique do
well here's one thing I did I basically
went from looking like this to looking
like this in about six months and after
ten years of training experience I was
about a hundred and fifty three pounds
on the left and 163 pounds at eight
point four percent body fat on the right
to me this really looks like about ten
pounds of pure lean gait maybe more as
my body fat percentage definitely went
down so what happened here number one I
cut first if you are advanced and over
say 12% body fat this recom strategy I'm
about to outline just won't work you
won't be lean enough at the end to look
drastically bigger number two I wasn't
too lean on the left
in my experience trying to do this after
a contest prep diet is an ideal because
your body needs more fat gain just to
recover properly for most ending the cut
somewhere in the 8 to 10 % body fat
range is the sweet spot number three on
the Left I was just coming off an injury
meaning I spent several months training
at a very low volume and intensity so
once my volume and intensity were
increased again experienced the muscle
memory effect you don't need to get
injured but taking a few weeks off
training once in a while may be an
effective way to fire up some new growth
and see some recon number four i
optimize my anabolic hormone levels
after the cut gained too slowly and
testosterone stays suppressed came too
quickly and it also stays suppressed as
a guide I aim for 1 to 3 pounds of gain
per month and regularly assess visual
progress studies also show that new
relationships can increase testosterone
massively hell even a five-minute
conversation with an attractive woman
can increase testosterone by 30% so
timing the end of your cut with the
beginning of a new romance is well
advised finally ride this train as long
as you can but be aware that it won't
last forever
there will come a point where you'll
simply start making more fat gains than
muscle gains and once you reach that
point you can either enter a maintenance
phase maybe slowly making progress or
you can like me decide that maintaining
is pretty boring and enter a proper
bulking phase accepting that fat gain
will to a degree improve performance and
drive new muscular gains faster so
outside of this relatively transient
recomposition I think intermediate to
advanced trainees
should organize their program into
discrete cutting and bulking cycles I
personally prefer the longer bulking
cycles of six plus months with
necessarily longer cutting cycles this
is because I'd rather gain a bit of
extra fat if it means it might help me
build more muscle as a result for those
who'd prefer to stay leaner year-round
shorter bulking cycles of two to four
months interspersed with shorter mini
cuts of two to four weeks is a better
strategy and while body recomposition is
a surefire bet for beginners d trainees
the obese and steroid users the rest of
us can sometimes grab it strategically
following a cut but otherwise should
compartmentalize progress into periodic
cuts and bulks all right what is going
on everyone thank you so much for
watching the video I want to quickly
thank Skillshare for sponsoring this
video
Skillshare is an online learning
community that I wish I'd discovered a
long time ago they have over 17,000
classes and everything to do with design
photography videography video editing
running your own business basically
anything that pertains to creators and I
find it to be especially pertinent to my
personal interests and my current career
so I want to recommend two courses to
you guys
the first is visual storytelling with
Final Cut Pro which is what I use to
edit these videos by Andrew Gormley and
the other is fundamentals of DSLR
photography by Justin bridges so a
premium membership starts at $10 and you
get access to all of the learning skill
share has an exclusive offer for you
guys
so the first 700 people to click the
first link in the description will get
two months completely free so make sure
you're one of the first 700 people and
click that first link down there in the
description I'm highly recommend you
guys go and check out Skillshare so
thank you skill share once again for
sponsoring this video and thank you guys
once again for watching I also have my
Kiwi merch and some other t-shirts and
mugs available on my online store as you
can check that out I've got it linked in
the description as well like the video
if you liked it please and also don't
forget to turn on the notification bell
I've got another science explained video
coming in just a couple days so make
sure you don't miss
hit the subscribe button if you haven't
already and I will see you guys next
time
[Music]