when you're adjusting your diet plan one
of the options that you can pick is
slowing down a diet that's gotten a
little fast for you so you hit slow down
and it's gonna ask you to make sure that
you're okay with slowing down the pace
of the diet and then it can ask you a
couple of things if you want to add a
week to your diet reduce your diet goal
keep the same goal or even set custom
goals you can always select a new goal
and it's gonna tell you what your old
goal is just to make sure you're in the
loop and some goals are not allowed
because they would take you outside of
your safe available use and the app will
always tell you that you can choose
custom goals so you can basically change
your goals on the fly let's say you are
a little bit too you know napoleonic
with your old goals and maybe you can
choose some new goals that are more
realistic you can just select them every
week if you like and you can select the
diet date that makes sense so you can
even change your diet goal for the date
not just the weight that you're going
into
and always the app will tell you how
difficult of things it's going to be to
meet this goal and if it's very hard
it's going to be tough so be ready and
it's always up to your approval and you
never have to do anything the app will
ask you of course every time if you'd
like to copy meals from last week so
that you can use the same plan it'll ask
you to review everything and then you're
on
if the app recommends that to stay on
track you have to cut your calories you
can always ignore this and repeat the
week that you're currently doing this
might be because you had a bad week or
you're okay with your current rates it's
always gonna ask you to confirm and you
never have to pick anything it's all on
you whatever you want you can change the
diet goals by adding a week to the diet
you can change by reducing weight loss
school you can set custom diet goals
whichever one you choose should be the
one that fits your situation best and
there's no correct answer it's a diet
coach so it listens to you no matter
what you say it's always going to ask
you to confirm to copy meals and then
it's going to present you with a list of
options of everything it's doing you're
gonna confirm and you're gonna move on
sometimes if the diet is pushing along a
little too quick you can always choose
to repeat the week that you're currently
on but if you still want to accomplish
the same end weight diet goals what
you're going to do is hit repeat the
week it's always going to ask you to
confirm and you're gonna hit okay you
can go back and look at more options and
then what you're gonna do is add a week
to the diet that allows you to still hit
the same weight goal but the diet ends
one week later so if you just had a bad
week or you're off your game
that's a fine choice to make and so are
all the other ones once you hit that
it's gonna ask you if you want to copy
your meals or not for convenience you
should probably say yes and then it's
going to ask you to confirm everything
on the final screen and then you're good
to go with the next week's plan
when the diet plan asks you if you want
to stay on track and you are okay with
making the diet a bit more aggressive to
stay on your goals
just hit the default stay on track
button and hit next it's going to ask
you if you want to copy your meals from
next week for convenience that's
probably a good idea because it'll let
you template the meals you already have
same schedule then the app is going to
ask you to review it steps stay on track
copy meals everything looks good feel
free to go back and review or confirm
and go on with your diet for better
results