all right what's going on guys so in
this video i want to introduce you to a
new training style that you probably
haven't tried before because one thing
that i keep hearing is that these
at-home workouts can get pretty stale
pretty quickly i think this is a problem
because having variety in your workouts
seems to be linked to training success
even if indirectly one 2019 study found
that when subjects were split into two
groups and given either a randomized
program that varied reps and exercises
or a fixed program that had the same
reps and same exercises for eight weeks
even though there was no difference in
muscle thickness or strength the group
randomly varying their program saw a
greater increase in motivation to train
so at a time like this when motivation's
at an all-time low adding some variety
and randomness to your workouts should
help you be more motivated and
consistent so with this in mind i want
to take you guys through a randomized
at-home workout and if you want to run
through some more of these workouts
yourself you can grab the full card
training manual for free over on my
website which i'll also link down below
and you don't need any equipment to run
these workouts all you need is a deck of
cards so let me explain how it works
first we're going to shuffle a deck of
cards and deal off the first 20 cards
face down this is how the randomness is
built in each card represents one set so
these 20 cards represent your full
workout if you feel like you need more
volume you can deal more cards but just
keep in mind that a 20 card workout is
going to run about 20 minutes 30 cards
will take about 30 minutes and so on
next we're going to turn over the first
card where the card number represents
the number of reps plus 10. so if you
draw a 7 you'll do 17 reps if you draw a
2 you'll do 12 reps and so on face cards
count as tens so if you draw a face card
you'll do 20 reps aces are the rest
cards so you'll get two minutes of rest
every time you draw an ace but otherwise
you'll go through the full workout
without resting between sets except for
one exception which i'll get to so the
suits represent the exercises so i'll
put the full exercise list over here
next to my head spades are push
exercises clubs or pull exercises hearts
or leg exercises and diamonds are
isolation exercises meaning biceps
triceps abs and calves all right so
those are the basic rules now let's go
through a workout together so first you
want to start with a quick five-minute
warm-up to help increase core body
temperature and get out of that at home
relaxation mode and into a at-home
workout mode so i'll do about five
minutes of light cardio which can be
jogging on the spot jumping rope playing
basketball on a mini hoop or doing
jumping jacks and it's really important
that you not skip this step especially
when training from home from there i'll
jump into some full body dynamic
stretching so i'll do five to ten lying
thoracic spine rotations some step
throughs then some leg swings and arm
circles and now we're ready to start the
workout so we'll deal out our 20 cards
and turn over the first card which is a
seven of hearts meaning we're gonna hit
seven plus ten so 17 reps on the first
leg movement which is a walking lunge
and 17 reps here means 17 reps per leg
so 34 total lunges now for some of you
just hitting that rep count will be
challenging enough but for a lot of you
myself included simply hitting that rep
count won't have you training close
enough to failure and i think this is
probably the biggest mistake most people
are making with their training right now
they're just aiming for a set rep count
so say 10 or 20 reps but not actually
pushing their muscles close enough to
failure to create tension in those
highest threshold muscle fibers you
don't need to go all the way to failure
but if you're leaving more than say
three to five reps in the tank you
probably aren't maxing out the muscle
building potential of that exercise so
as we go through the workout rather than
doing super high rep sets to get close
enough to failure we're going to instead
focus on ways to make each movement more
difficult within the selected rep range
by using intraset feedback where part
way through the set you ask yourself
okay is this really feeling hard enough
and if not how can i start making it
feel harder so i'm getting closer to
failure by the time i get to the target
rep count so for the walking lunge the
first thing you can do is wear a
backpack to add some extra resistance of
course if you have a set of dumbbells at
home feel free to use the dumbbells we
can also make it harder by focusing on
minimizing assistance from the back leg
so rather than using your calves to push
you forward
think of each rep as if it were a single
leg squat where you're only using your
front leg to drive your heel down into
the floor and we can also take longer
strides to increase hip range of motion
and get the glutes more involved so
after completing 17 reps per leg we'll
turn over the next card which is a queen
of spades this means we're heading 20
reps on the push-up or the incline
push-up and again if 20 push-ups won't
have you close enough to failure you
need to find ways to make the exercise
more difficult for the target rep count
so there are three things that we can do
here first we can slow the negative down
to at least two or three seconds we can
pause for one to two seconds in the
stretch position and then actively
squeeze our pecs together at the top of
each and every rep
if you really exaggerate these
techniques as you do the set you can
make any number of reps feel quite
challenging so let's say on these
push-ups i'm getting close to the target
rep count and i still feel like i've got
another 10 or more reps in the tank what
i should do is start really exaggerating
these intensity techniques to make the
last few reps extra hard so i can slow
down the negative to a five second count
pause for five seconds at the bottom and
then squeeze my pecs as hard as possible
for five seconds at the top for those
last few reps and this intraset tempo
adjustment is gonna help you get closer
to failure without having to do 50 or 60
reps and also gives you a chance to
apply overload through less conventional
methods like extending tempo and
improving the mind muscle connection
okay so after that we turn over a two of
clubs so we're going to do 12 reps of
the first pull exercise which is a
doorway pull-up tree branch pull up or
banded pull down if you have bands now i
know many of you own a doorway pull up
bar so in that case you can just do full
range of motion pull ups there and if
you can't hit the target rep count with
good form you can either use a band to
help give you some assistance or just
stop once you reach failure and move on
to the next card otherwise you might
have a tree in your backyard that you
can do some pull-ups on or maybe you've
got a band that you can use to knock out
12 reps of doorway pull-downs okay up
next we turn over a ten of diamonds
which means we're going to hit 20 reps
on the first isolation exercise so bicep
curls now i know i poked some fun at
gallon jug curls in my april fools video
but they're actually a perfectly
reasonable way to overload the biceps
and it's funny because after i filmed
those sip curls my arms were sore for
two or three days so they definitely do
work you just don't need to take sips in
between the curls
yes you do and again if you have bands
or dumbbells feel free to make that
substitution and similar to the push-up
if you get near those last few reps and
feel like you could easily still keep
going you want to make some intraset
technique adjustments and start
intentionally making the movement feel
harder by super slowing the negative
down to five seconds squeezing your
biceps as hard as possible at the top
and by keeping constant tension on the
muscle by not letting your biceps rest
at the bottom something else you can do
here especially if you draw a lower card
is do two second pauses at the midpoint
of each rep on the way up and on the way
down all right so after that we draw ace
meaning we've got two minutes of rest
now when it comes to rest periods the
best research we have suggests that
resting longer than one minute between
sets for the same body part is better
than resting for less than one minute
however on this program unless you draw
two cards of the same suit back to back
you're probably going to be hitting
different exercises for different body
parts so for example our legs can be
resting from the lunges as we do
push-ups also i personally find that
resting between every set at home is an
easy way to just slow down the workout
get distracted and lose motivation so my
advice is to only rest if you feel like
you really need it between exercises
that hit the same body part so you can
rest for a bit if you draw two cards of
the same suit in a row but otherwise
just keep going without rest unless you
draw an ace and at the very least this
is going to add a cardiovascular
conditioning component to the workout
help improve your strength endurance
capacity and help you get through those
higher volume workouts once gyms reopen
again okay so from here we're just going
to keep turning the rest of the cards
while using intraset feedback and the
various tempo and mind muscle connection
techniques to make each set
appropriately difficult and rather than
going through the rest of the 15 cards
here individually i'm just going to
overlay the clips as i discuss some of
the other important training principles
when running a more randomized program
like this one so one thing i do want to
mention here is the role of progressive
overload a lot of people might be
wondering about this
but jeff how are we supposed to apply
progressive overload for just always
changing the reps and exercises like
won't all that randomness make it harder
to actually gradually add weight over
time well i do think this is actually a
good question and here's how i think
about it in our current circumstance
achieving methodical overload like going
from four reps to six reps on a squat is
not only difficult but borderline
impractical especially if motivation is
low and equipment is limited sure if
you're really dedicated you can
gradually overload by adding one
magazine per week to your backpack
adding one cup of water to your gallon
jug every week or even just adding one
push-up per week and that certainly
would help but what i'm hearing from
most people is that meticulously
overloading these makeshift exercises
doesn't feel practical or motivating so
here i'm offering a temporary solution
the card workout where we're using
randomness to increase enjoyment and
motivation while balancing out that
randomness with sufficient structure by
focusing on using good technique
harnessing a mind muscle connection and
using appropriate exertion through the
use of intraset feedback and intensity
techniques so these workouts can be
something you follow along with for just
a few workouts when you're bored or
maybe there's something that you can
commit to three to five times a week as
long as the gyms are closed until you
get back into your regular training and
like i said you can get the full card
training manual for free over on
jeffnipper.com so i'll put a button to
that over here next to my head don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and i'll see you guys
all here in the next one