alright hello everyone and welcome to
another episode of the ice cream for
pr's podcast my name is Jeff Nippert and
with me as always is my co-host Robin hi
and today we have a very special guest
his name is Bryce Lewis he's a strength
coach with online coaching company the
strength athletes welcome to the podcast
Bryce hey thanks for having me
yeah the pleasure is all mine so why
don't you tell us a little bit about
yourself and your coaching company I've
had only positive things to say about
the strength athlete since I became
aware of them and I think that you guys
represent a special minority within the
coaching community in that all the
things that you guys do is very athlete
oriented and science-based and I think
that you guys are doing a lot of great
stuff we appreciate that to kind of
orient ourselves supervising more and
more for the athletes specifically
Powell versus primarily who we work with
although we're starting to work with
more bodybuilders figure athletes
fitness athletes as well but I'll back
up a little bit I am a competitive power
lifter in the 93 kilo weight class
generally although I compete sometimes
above that and as far as my background I
played volleyball in high school and
college for San Francisco State and then
I switched to doing bodybuilding
competitions and then that led me into
howling so um I had some success in
pelting stuck with it I think I'm I'm up
there in the top three or four or so in
the 93 kilo class in the United States
at least and and trying to get to the
world level one of these years and
competitively
I've hit a 600 squad 430 bench and a 700
deadlift and you know just looking to
make improvements there in October of
2013 I started the strength athlete so I
could give back to the sport and pass on
some of the knowledge that I've learned
and help bring other athletes up to the
same level of competition if not beyond
so since that time we've worked with
over probably 300 athletes now I've got
a handful of athletes at the
International national levels and I'm
trying to do more and more for them on a
regular basis yeah that's good stuff and
something that I really admire about you
brace as a coach is that you not only
sort of talk the talk you also walk the
walk yourself and I know you just
competed at the Arnold Classic right
yeah pretty impressive numbers there and
that's just that gives your clients
something that they can sort of like
look up to I think and I think that
that's really important you can do that
your clients yeah I appreciate that and
I like that a lot
one of the things though that I'm trying
to get away with get away from a little
bit I guess is making it you know the
price show and making it more that TSA
is a team of now five coaches who all
are great you know when it comes to
program for athletes and and have a
track record of athletes instead of just
like hey here's this guy that's strong
sign up because he should we want it to
be hey sign up because this is what we
can do for athletes that kind of thing
ya know that's awesome so just taking a
step aside from the training for a
minute as I understand it you're a
philosophy major or you have a degree in
philosophy is that right yeah exactly so
my path in in undergrad education wasn't
exactly straight I started off as a math
major for two years and then switched to
philosophy in the meantime switching
between three universities I started off
with San Francisco State then to
Community College and finally finished
in UCLA with a degree in philosophy
that's cool it's interesting because as
far as I know a lot of mathematicians
tend to have interests in philosophy as
well which that that's really cool and
it's it's interesting that you ended up
here as a strength coach from that place
do you find that your background or
education in philosophy is useful in
this particular industry and if you do
how do you how do you think so how do
you find that that can help you I think
so especially for people that are into
Exercise Science not necessarily just
you know meathead coaching that kind of
thing
there are a few branches of philosophy
and some of the ones that apply
I think logic definitely applies in
realms anything when we're dealing with
science of exercise science for sure and
being able to construct arguments and
convey things to our athletes in terms
that they can understand and you know be
able to look at someone's argument for
something and figure out is something I
should be paying attention to or
something it doesn't really matter or it
doesn't hold weight when you actually
break it down so yeah I think in some
senses it does obviously some stuff
about metaphysics doesn't really apply
to probably too much our athletes but
we've been getting a little bit more
into sports psychology lately and we've
been pairing with a great mental
performance coach from New Zealand named
David nice and he's been doing wonders
for athletes so there's a little bit of
a carryover there between sport
psychology and and philosophy but
different in some sense is that it's
more performance oriented yeah for sure
well one of the things that I've noticed
especially within the nutrition
community and also in the exercise
science or just training community is is
there's this widespread lack of basic
understanding of logic or even just
basic concepts of knowledge so there are
certain things that you'll see posted
online or wherever and you could know
virtually nothing about Exercise Science
or nutrition and just by the structure
of the
argument alone you could say well this
doesn't really make any logical sense
like it so there's a lot of complex like
like they try to complicate things with
all of these I don't know different
variables or whatever but in but if you
just look at the whole thing as a whole
like their argument just as like just on
many levels is not about yeah it's like
that doesn't follow from what you posted
how did you possibly reach that
conclusion and so I find that I have a
passing interest in philosophy I don't
have any formal education on the topic
but it's definitely one of my sort of
side interests so I thought it was cool
that you you know also have a an
interest in that but what I found has
helped me is my ability to think
critically and be skeptical about
different ideas so as you know there's a
whole bunch of misinformation out there
and your ability to sort of question
that information and think critically
about the different sorts of things that
you're hearing from different sources
can help you sort of wave through and
and sort out all this sort of different
information that's coming at you and
find the good stuff yeah yeah I very
much agree you know taking a critical
eye to things Phelps in so many areas
you know even outside of a parallel
thing and fitness and you know these
these areas that we kind of frequent and
it certainly helps in those areas for
sure but it helps outside too and being
able to put on your [ __ ] detector a
little bit and allow into your beliefs
information that is probably going to be
more accurate than otherwise and for for
the listeners there's a YouTube channel
called qualia soup that has a series of
videos about open-mindedness skepticism
and just kind of a general logical
concepts that I think it's all animated
and conveyed pretty easily and I think
it's very much worth the readers time
that's qualia as in like do you see
colors away I see colors yes yeah so
moving back to sort of the athletes
you're coaching and all that one thing
that I particularly like about the
message that you put out there Bryce is
your focus on long-term planning and
this is something that I would like to
take and sort of apply to my own
coaching and I was wondering if maybe
you could elaborate how on how it is
that you manage to sort of keep your
athletes motivated and interested and
keeping in mind this sort of overarching
long-term goal and we can talk about
that like the short-term goal sorry to
interject there but like when people are
given four week training programs with
this specific short-term girl goal sorry
that like I find that clients like that
like it motivates them like in that time
block but when you're looking at
powerlifting what really matters is like
the like oh is when your competitive
season is and like the competition date
and like organizing the training within
that larger macro cycle is really
important so I guess just asking how you
keep your clients motivated when keeping
like the long-term goal in mind yeah so
I can't speak directly for you know my
clients and I'm sure they'll listen to
this and you can give their own two
cents but generally people that come to
us for coaching come to us because
they're interested in competitive
parenting and competing in some form
another so either either at the local
level the national level of the
international level it may have
aspirations to to grow to one of those
levels so it's important under that
context to make sure that we are we're
preparing athletes for the highest level
and not necessarily just doing what
matters to get them stronger right now
so there's there's kind of a few
important things that go into that that
are general to sports as a whole so
athletes that peak under the age of 18
often aren't able to reach or get over
that same peak performance later in life
and you just rare that we really have
athletes that we're working with under
18 but the general idea is that
slower sustainable progress is going to
be better in the long term generally we
get to avoid injury a little bit better
and get to plan them for where they're
going to be two years three years four
years down the line even if they're not
necessarily going to be working with us
still during those time frames but you
know to go back to your point about
reconciling hey you need to have
short-term goals we also need to have
longer-term goals - I'm sure you're
aware and your listeners are aware that
we can period eyes at different time
lengths so we've got micro cycles that
are a week long Mazal cycles that are
four to six weeks and you know we can
look at the time - so how we manage it
is we just create a plan for the year
ahead and we have we haven't really
looked into multi-year planning just yet
besides having a few ideas about where
athlean-x is heading in two years but we
look at what's going on year ahead
which competitions are you planning to
compete in and we program times of
decreased volume this is at the time
what we're doing a volume block - an
intensification this is the time where
you know we need to period eyes
nutrition you know in terms of having
our feet in a caloric deficit and a
caloric surplus that doesn't mean we
can't set goals on the short-term either
you know so we have athletes that run
all kinds of different types of training
but if I have an athlete looking forward
to even a mock meet in eight weeks time
that still provides a pretty darn good
amount of motivation that they're gonna
want to look forward to it and train
hard and prepare themselves for that
well you know that makes a lot of sense
I think that that's the best way to go
about it because I find what's what
happens sometimes is people sort of miss
the forest for the trees
so they become fixated on one goal like
oh I need to get my squat up or whatever
it is right and so they'll run a for six
weeks squat phase or whatever and
they'll miss the idea that well you know
the goal of powerlifting is to post the
best total right that isn't it say you
can't focus specifically on one thing at
one
I'm but when you have this sort of
overarching perspective this long-term
outline I think that can help people see
the big picture right and I think that
that helps in keeping people motivated
over the long term so I really like that
about your philosophy another thing that
I noticed that you do is or at least
this is something new maybe that you've
been trying out is you pose questions to
your team or you post them on your
social media that are meant to be sort
of thought-provoking deeper type
questions that get people thinking and
interested and you said that this came
from or you got the idea from one of
your old philosophy professors who would
come into class and pose a question to
the class that was a little bit deeper
and got everyone thinking and then a
discussion would ensue how has that been
going so far really well we've had
people on the team that have picked it
up to varying levels some people that
have started journaling and kind of
rediscovered their journaling that they
used to do on a regular basis and really
like they were doing it and some people
that probably consider it for a few
minutes and then you know just go about
what they were doing only but yeah I had
a philosophy professor at the community
college that the young guy and you write
a question lavoro and then discuss it
and these discussions often you know
would range from 15 minutes and some of
the more heated ones would take 45
minutes or so and you know they were on
topics related to philosophy of course
but I've applied it a little bit more to
to power lifting so there's psychology
questions there's questions about
programming and and basic programming
concepts what is failure what if miss
repetitions mean to you
to what degree should a training program
be customized the individual and why
stuff about psychology biases that we
all hold just so that people can be like
I mentioned earlier on better critical
thinkers yeah and that's a big one that
cognitive bias is that we that we see in
the industry so so frequently
one of those that I just touch on
quickly here is the dunning-kruger
effect it's not so much a cognitive bias
as it is just a principal or an observed
principle in psychology but in case any
of our listeners don't know the
dunning-kruger effect is this idea that
people who are undereducated
or sane on experts on at any given topic
tend to overestimate the amount of
knowledge that they actually have so
they're overconfident in what they know
and people who are actually genuine
experts on a topic or possess a whole
lot of knowledge tend to be under
confident or under report their self
perceived expertise and you find that
this manifests itself in the fitness
industry much the people who have say
the least education and presumably the
least amount of knowledge tend to be the
sometimes the most vocal or the most
confident and sort of open nonsense
since they're espousing and then people
who are genuinely profoundly
knowledgeable and have a lot of good
things to say sometimes shy away from it
because they're fearful that they might
be wrong or they doubt themselves
intellectually or whatever the case may
be
yeah yeah absolutely and you know it's
pretty pervasive too and I think that
scientists up which I'm not one but Sam
Harris is is one that I look up to quite
a lot neuroscientists and flopster also
yeah I think you're either an interview
or one of his books or something said
that you know a scientist in a room of
other scientists knows that someone in
that room is going to be an expert at
anything they're going to say so there's
there's definitely caution in what
you're saying you have to word things
very specifically and realize that
you're only talking about one small area
of your specific expertise and that's
something that we just don't just see in
the general public because it's very
easy to make generalizations about
topics and and just refer
rehearse things that you normally say
and not think critically so it's it's
more difficult to something critically
and to keep all these biases in mind
than than otherwise so one guy that I
follow pretty closely is dr. Steven
novella he's the host of the skeptics
guide to the universe podcast if you're
familiar with it rice but it's comes
highly recommended but he basically says
that after every show that they do
they'll speak on some topic that some
guy did his PhD thesis on or whatever
and we'll know absolutely everything
about it and just email them and just
tear them to shreds basically because of
it all the stuff that they got wrong
right but I think that that should be
seen as a positive thing right that
people are thinking critically about
ideas and I don't think that this should
deter people from being vocal about
ideas if they think that they are able
to speak on them intelligence why
provoking like to come back to what Jeff
asked you about like you provoking this
discussion within the TSA community and
your followers and stuff is a really
good thing because it can bring to light
like a lot of different people's
opinions and I think people really
really like being invited to speak out
on an issue whether they're an expert or
not like I think it's just really
helpful and then I feel like there's
less like I think that diminishes our
like it makes it so that there's less of
that like someone claiming to be an
expert in like putting like forcefully
putting out their ideas I feel like
asking people to discuss things kind of
turns people away from that if I am
saying that yeah I've tried to phrase it
in such a way that it doesn't look like
there's a clear answer and that it's
just kind of asking people that thoughts
are and I think that kind of discussion
is great because well with this specific
set of questions I'm usually bringing up
a fact or a concept or something like
that putting a little bit of color into
it and then telling people hey what do
you think about this or can you find an
example where this occurs in your life
or something like that so yeah I think
that's good and I think people can
generally talk about
they're not experts about it would be
foolish to only talk about things that
you're an expert on but as long as you
don't a certain that you know more than
you do yeah for sure
a one thing sort of related to this
Conan O'Brien the host of the Conan show
or whatever it is that late-night show
yeah he's been doing that now for
probably ten or fifteen years right and
you would think that at this point he
would be perfectly confident and we just
go in and do an episode would record the
show and feel that it went great or
whatever I mean it's a very successful
show and he's definitely established
within that arena but he says you know
he doubts himself all the time and he
always thinks that he has no idea what
he's doing basically and he just goes
out there and does what he can do and he
says sometimes he thinks that the
episode was crap and then sometimes he
thinks it was good but overall he just
feels like he has no idea what he's
doing it's like what your dad said like
the imposter oh yeah like know that you
know enough on a topic to speak about it
yet as soon as you get the nerves it's
like you feel like you're an impostor in
your body like you don't really know
what you're talking about and like how
could you possibly be talking on this
matter yeah yeah so like I see these as
as one as manifestations of one stream
of the dunning-kruger effect right where
you have people who are genuinely
knowledgeable but they doubt their
ability because they know how much more
there is out there that they don't know
and that's sort of what takes most of
the weight yeah I think that's good I
think it's a good idea to stay humble
and always realize that hey there's
someone that knows more about subjective
X but that shouldn't be discouraging it
should be encouraging like hey this is
the room that I have to grow and look at
how much there is to know and how much
there is left to discover so and one of
the one of the things that sort of
helped me reconcile this in my own mind
is something that Canadian rapper shad
said in one of his talks that he gave he
said that intelligence isn't a virtue
so unlike
things like courage and kindness and I
don't know patience and so on
intelligence isn't in and of itself
virtuous so when he views it through
this lens he's able to focus instead on
you know not being selfish or not being
cowardly and recognizing that well if
he's wrong then that's not the end of
the world because you know everyone
makes mistakes everyone gets stuff wrong
and that instead he focuses on not
regretting the things he did wrong or
said wrong or whatever but instead he
regrets things that he did that was the
you know like selfish or cowardly or
whatever just a just a bridge off the
idea that it's it's okay to be wrong I
definitely think it is as long as you
know people are willing to admit when
they're wrong and I think I think these
days I've come across but a lot of
people that that attach their beliefs to
wealth attach attacks on beliefs to
attacks on character so if something
questions something you believe they
take it to mean a I'm questioning
whether you're a good person or not or
things like that instead of hey I just
think that you're wrong in this specific
situation so we see it all the time that
you know I can I can question why
someone's doing with squad specific way
or programming specific way and they may
take it to me hey I don't like you as a
person or I feel like what you know
you're bad or something like that I
think we all have we've been around the
fitness industry for any significant
amount of time sure so I'm just gonna
touch on a couple of these questions
that you had here and we can sort of
discuss them on here yeah so one of the
ones that I really liked that you posed
was what does progress mean to you and
would you be happy if you had the
results without the work so here I'm
assuming you're you know getting at the
idea that there can be different flavors
or varieties of progress and it doesn't
necessarily have to be one dimensional
so a lot of people think of progress in
terms of getting stronger in the gym
adding weight to their squat or getting
leaner or losing weight or whatever
but there are so many other ways that we
can progress engage progress and so I
think it goes you know many layers
deeper than
just simple progression in strength or
weightloss yeah I think so too
and specifically with this question this
one was from Eric Helms actually I'm
pretty sure this one's from Eric Helms
the idea is that the end result is not
necessarily the whole goal and that
there's so much to be gained through the
experience of lifting or dieting or
competing on on a daily and weekly basis
and that you shouldn't say about all
your satisfaction for that one end
result you should experience
satisfaction from day-to-day and
week-to-week kind of just embrace the
journey yeah definitely yeah that's a
that's a good point because a lot of
people get fixated I noticed this all
the time and bodybuilding people will
think you know as soon as the
competition is here then this will all
be worth it right yeah and then the
competition comes and they're like oh
that was it like that wasn't that great
I only got on stage that sets up this
false idea that well once the
competition is over what do I have now
now I have no goals I have you know
nothing means to all kinds of bad habits
and dualistic thinking I'm sure you guys
experienced that with your own clients
and athletes too so being able to enjoy
whatever it is you can enjoy throughout
the course of your preparation is a much
better approach than sort of wishing the
preparation away so that the event will
come and then be over and then you can
eat whatever you want again because it's
it's never as good at the you know on
the other side as you think it's going
to be unless you've embraced a mental
state where you're just enjoying the
whole process anyway yeah and one thing
one other thing that I wanted to touch
on about this question is that you know
we can we can progress in ways other
than the two ways that I mentioned right
so even like things like form like if
you improve your form if you spend four
weeks and you come out at the end of the
four weeks with a with better squat
mechanics then that should be seen as
very important and significant progress
and it doesn't necessarily have to just
be that you got stronger right yeah do
you sighs these different types of
progress with your athletes like do you
bring them up or do you kind of let them
like through your questions or whatever
let them find that so some of this takes
place in in conversations back and forth
through emails but what we we have
athletes do when they start off with us
is come up with up to four
process-oriented goals things that
aren't necessarily about a specific
result that will happen in you know a
specific amount of time things that they
can work on here and now that will help
get them to that end result so that kind
of helps avoid some that tendency of
telescopic thinking and instead focus on
what's happening on the specific day so
when you talk about kind of the journey
and stuff and and just enjoying and
embracing what's going on a daily basis
but yeah through through some of those
process goals we hope that athletes
think think more about that and think
about different types of progress
sometimes it can be really really hard
to see any significant amount of
progress right that's part of the reason
why I like powerlifting in the offseason
it's because it gives me something
tangible to sort of hold on to right but
if you're just a strict ball you know
looking at changes in the mirror you're
bound to see things at a snail's pace if
you're looking on a daily basis
yeah exactly and that can be frustrating
for bodybuilders right especially if
you've been lifting for you know four or
five years you're probably you know
getting close to your genetics ceiling
or you're at least getting to the point
where you're not seeing changes on a
month-to-month basis anymore right and
so this in in this situation I think it
becomes even more important to focus on
the journey instead of the destination
because if you can't enjoy yourself and
see progress in the very little things
like maybe just slowing down a rep a
little bit or you know a slight posing
tweak or something like that then you'll
burn out trying to get the progress too
fast because it's just not going to come
fast after a certain amount of time
right there's always diminishing returns
and bodybuilding especially natural
bodybuilding yeah yeah I very much agree
and you know that kind of reminds me
that's probably one of the reasons why
we see this this upswing of bodybuilders
doing offseasons in powerlifting because
it adds backs and that satisfaction of
gaining progress on a faster timeline
yeah so are you familiar with the myth
of Sisyphus Albert Camus it's a old
ancient Greek myth
this poor guy Sisyphus was punished by
the Greek gods to roll a big giant rock
up a mountain right yeah and so he had
to roll the rock up the mountain and
then just push it back down and then
roll it back up again he had to do this
for all of eternity
and the reason that this is such a
brutal punishment is that you know it
just negates all meaning essentially
right you're it's just a it's just a
menial task over and over again yeah and
this is the way that sometimes I feel
goodbye yes it's an effort and futility
exactly and this is the way that I think
I sometimes feel and other bodybuilders
probably sometimes feel is that you're
just doing the same thing day in day out
even if you have goals and even if you
are slowly getting a little bit stronger
it can feel as though you're just you
know pushing the rock up the mountain
only to have it push back down again
right especially from aunties and to
offseason with a lot of natural
bodybuilders mm-hmm yeah it's it can
seem a little bit pointless what does
all this work for why am i working so
hard I think in some of those cases it's
a good idea to to put a little bit of
perspective into what's going on
like hey bodybuilding natural
bodybuilding is important this is a war
the goal is something that you've chosen
but hey this is this is a hobby as well
and this represents I'm hoping a small
part of your life and something that you
enjoy and it's something that that you
signed up for - no one's forcing you to
do this
this isn't punishment or anything like
that this is voluntary so make it fun
you know playing clean ways to make it
fun exactly yeah and I think that's how
you resolve the problem of Sisyphus
right you you have to sort of attach
your own meaning to the task
so even he could say you know I'm gonna
try to push the rock up with one hand so
far and then try to get yeah you could
set little mini goals for yourself and
make it fun and that attaches meaning to
it so if you're a bodybuilder who seems
to have hit a plateau or the results
aren't coming in as fast as you'd like
them to then have you put it in if you
frame in that perspective where you know
this is fun this is your choice it's
what you enjoy doing presumably then you
can focus on that instead of the you
know slow rate of progress or whatever
yeah oh I was just gonna say that you
like the idea of framing it in different
ways and I think I think that's
important and and taking advantage of
the fact you can view things from
different circumstances helps a lot so
we have athletes that have blocks over
like a specific weight that they hit and
a tool that we've used occasionally is
here in the US we use pounds we've had a
pleats just program all of their weights
and kilos so you know now they have none
of those associations that they have
with let's say four hundred pound
squatters it's like how that's cool it's
just a total different number to them
and something that just has no relevance
right oh yeah because people on myself I
was like this I wanted a 500 pound squat
for so long for like a couple years
right and and Robin was the same way
she's still chasing a 200 pound supply
and like these are kind of arbitrary
numbers right like in and of themselves
there there's nothing special about
those numbers just something that you
decided yeah yeah so and another another
thing I was just gonna quickly touch on
here on the idea of progress is making
mental progress so I get a lot of people
come to me who are just obsessed with
one specific thing right like they just
they want to lose weight on the scale
and I'll tell them that well you know
the
number on the scale is important as a
guide and as a tool and this sort of
thing but it doesn't tell us the whole
story
right so you shouldn't become fixated on
one thing and I've I feel as though I've
done a good job of teaching a lot of my
clients that you know there there are
other things like this is why we take
waste measurements this is why we get
photos this is why we track your
progress in the gym because it's not
just about that one number and you know
if you wake up in the morning you look
in the mirror and you say you know I
look better I feel like my pants are
fitting better if your goal is weight
loss and then you get on the scale and
you're up say you know point four of a
pound or something and it just ruins the
rest of your day young I think that
you're sort of putting the emphasis on
the wrong thing right and you're really
narrowing your your scope there so I
think that people can make mental
progress and can sort of put less weight
on the sit on the scale so to speak or
on the numbers in the gym or on our
members in the gym if you're a power
lifter yeah exactly and I think that
sort of like broadening of perspective
can be seen as progress in and of itself
yeah so I think I think there's a few
things in there one is that the majority
of people that probably are coming to
you and the majority of general
population people when they're viewing
success when it comes to let's say body
weight or something like that or as a
body composition because that's a little
bit more general how they look one of
the only pieces of information they have
access to is what their body weight is
so they tend to over obsess about that
when you know it's just another tool and
another measurement that we can make use
of among multiple things so see I mean
the same thing is true for a loafers
when people get obsessed about a
specific load on the bar when we can
take a look at bar speed our PE training
time total amount of volume intensity
for a week and just a bunch of other
things all right so let's move on to
another one your intern Joe Stanek I'm
not sure if I'm pronouncing that right
but anyway I had the pleasure of meeting
Joe briefly at the Arnold Classic yeah
yeah he posed the question if you were
to become injured how would that affect
your life and what if you could never
train again
so this one hits pretty close to home to
me I don't know if you've sustained any
significant injuries through your
training career but just last year I had
an injury in my back and it basically
prevented me from lobar squatting for a
pretty long period of time and then I
thought I was you know good to go again
and that path to recovery is never as
linear as you expect it to be a year
hope it would be so for me this is
something that I've more recently had to
deal with and sort of overcome and it
can definitely be a psychological battle
and it's a difficult one if you've ever
had to deal with this you can probably
relate but in terms of dealing with this
from my experience personally I've found
that it's a luxury to be able to switch
back and forth between powerlifting and
bodybuilding as I please so my sustained
that injury just shortly after Canadian
powerlifting Nationals last year in 2014
and then I decided I would just switch
gears and start training for
bodybuilding and so then I started my
prep for the muscle mayhem in California
I didn't do any squatting or dead
lifting for lower body work it was leg
press for us some you know leg curls
glute-ham raises this sort of stuff and
I ended up winning my pro card there so
for me it's nice to be able to switch
between those as I need to if I become
injured or stagnant in one or the other
have you sustain any injuries brace yeah
in college volleyball I ended up
herniating or bulging an l5 s1 disk I
could barely walk in the morning it was
excruciating for a while and I ended up
getting an epidural shot then gave the
area room to heal and just kind of
slowly started working my way back into
things and hasn't prevented me from
doing anything since there's been other
injuries dislocated shoulder doing
something stupid while snowboarding and
things but nothing
it's globally prevented me from pelting
thankfully so you know we just want our
athletes to do as much as possible to
make sure that doesn't happen that's not
to say that accidents don't happen and
you know we have athletes that get minor
tweaks and injuries and aches and pains
all the time and I think the most
frustrating ones are the chronic ones
that don't go away and that are just
always there in the background just
giving little reminders of the pain from
my experience coaching these athletes
those end up being the most frustrating
because you know going back to talking
about can't move it just seems pointless
and it just seems like there's no end
and it's just very frustrating yeah do
something on a help oh my no thanks yeah
what let's find a relatively
solution-oriented when it comes to
things so when I can't find a solution
or I can't direct someone hey go see
this person or something it's pretty
frustrating yeah I can relate to that
both on a personal level you know myself
and as a coach as well and I agree
so is there anything specifically that
you do other than you know seeking
professional help or whatever to
actually alleviate the injury itself and
expedite this or is it just a
preventative measure like do you do like
in like I noticed the on your pages and
stuff you show like a lot of active rest
sessions and like mobility sessions and
stuff and it was really interesting yeah
because we're not licensed physical
therapists we do a lot of referring to
people that are licensed
physiotherapists and we're in the
process of working up a questionnaire
sheet like when someone says hey I'm
injured aren't hurt we'll say hey okay
quickly fill this out let us know
basically how serious it is through a
series of questions and then from there
we either say okay well just train
through it or something like that it's
really not a big deal it's just
basically severe Dom's it'll go away in
a few days or this is something more
serious we need outside help we try as
much as possible
defer to people that can help them and
put their hands on them in person
because you know when it comes down to
it we're oftentimes thousands of miles
away from these athletes and information
emails and Skype calls are great but
you're not there in the gym witnessing
their performance and stuff like that
yeah yeah exactly so we tell people to
find physiotherapists that work without
please that know kind of modern
definitions of pain that know a RT and
grass and and other Active Release
methods and as far as kind of preventing
some of that stuff we try to regulate
volume throughout the training here so
it's not just the case that your volume
this week should be higher than your
volume last week it's a very short side
of the way I think of looking at things
it may be great for progress but you're
gonna burn out you're gonna crash you're
likely to get injured that way so so
being able to change volume and putting
periods in the training year of lower
volume and lower training stress I think
it's extremely important to keeping
athletes healthy keeping out things with
reduced stress and making sure they
don't injure themselves mm-hmm so by
periods of lower training volume do you
just mean a simple D load or do you
actually mean a block of training where
volume is you know significantly lower
than a previous month so sometimes I put
in Demon's weeks and weeks usually are
somewhere around 30% less volume usually
the intensity drops a little bit too and
usually post meet will put in periods
quote unquote transition blocks of two
to four weeks of decreased volume and
often decreased exercise high
specificity to both give a mental and a
physical break to so it's not just squat
bench deadlifts five bench deadlift like
I'm doing a show now so I'm pretty much
like I was like I need a break from the
numbers and like from specifically the
competition squat and like the
competition bench the competition
deadlifts and I've just been doing other
things and it's really nice so I have
that in a structured way like how you're
doing it yeah so in the concepts of
piloting this is
the stuff that I've learned from my
mentor Eric Helms and some of the stuff
that we just kind of figured out on our
own but we opposites dance deadlifts we
opposite bar placement on squats and we
get in a lot or more decreased
specificity on the main movements so
benchpress will get in a bunch of
variations we'll throw in some extra
body building work and we'll say hey if
there's things that you wanted to put in
in the training year but you know we had
this fixed plan and you want to
experiment with now is the time to do it
so if you feel like doing some Olympic
weightlifting let's get some of that in
for you let's get it all out of your
system now let's have some fun in the
gym let's keep the RPS a little bit
lower so that when it comes time to
actually get back to training
they're both mentally and physically
refreshed and ready to go yeah that's a
really good approach to post competition
just back to the injury thing just for a
moment so we talked about sort of the
physicality of it psychologically do you
have any approaches that you take in
terms of helping you deal with the
injuries or overcome the injuries yeah
so it's kind of specific on on the
injury but much like what you did you
switch focus so you focus less on the
injury and you focus more at well
instead of focusing on what I can't do
you focus on what you can do and you
find ways to work around it or through
it if possible so you know if sumo
deadlift is out of the question well
let's get your conventional deadlift
think does it hurt okay well can you
singles all right well you can't do
singles so you know conventionals is out
of the question can we get you doing
rdls just continuing to find ways to
keep an athlete in the gym I think
ultimately is what we're after
as long as that's going to alleviate
some of the pain and keep them motivated
too so finding out what you can do is
ultimately one of the best ways of
keeping them motivated and if it's
really just a you know you're injured
you have to be out of the gym completely
since the athletes are still reporting
to us on a weekly basis often times we
say hey well you know we can't focus on
that
let's talk about psychology or do you
want to learn about programming let's
focus on something so this is useful
time for you yeah and I think that that
helps from a practical standpoint and
also just from a general well-being
standpoint so when you focus on things
that are within your you know locus of
control things that you can actually do
at this point in time you're much more
likely to be happy and better off
mentally then if you're focusing on the
stuff you can't do so with me it was a
real battle to not focus on low bar
squatting because I was making such good
progress I just finally hit my 500 pound
squat goal and then you know the next
week later I hurt my back so now I can't
keep going and it's just so difficult to
not fixate on that specific thing that
you want to be doing but you can do
right and so I sort of you know got led
towards the old stoic philosophy where
they basically say that you should focus
on things that are within your locus of
control not things that are outside your
locus of control and so ultimately it's
only these mental states right it's what
you focus on that will ultimately make
you happy or unhappy or whatever and not
things external to that and so I found
that that did help me
I mean it was still sort of a struggle
right the whole way through and anyone
who's passionate about this stuff and
has been injured can probably relate but
that was sort of a basic mentality that
I tried to keep reminding myself of yeah
I think that's you that's a really good
way of thinking about it yeah so another
thing here has to do with sustainability
so the question is do you think that the
current way that you approach your
training or diet or your competition
prep is something that you could sustain
over the long term and I think that this
one was Eric Helms as well who posted
this one in the coach's group in that
case this is the one from him the other
one was us okay gotcha
yeah continue anyways yeah so could you
comment on that the idea of
sustainability over the long term I
I can speak from a bodybuilding
perspective here in that you know I get
some people coming to me maybe their
first competition or their second
competition and they'll say you know I
love the way I look right now I just
want to be able to maintain this and
then I'll be happy and just like well
you know you're peaked for a
bodybuilding competition eating whatever
it is 1,400 calories a day doing cardio
six days a week there's no way you're
gonna be able to sustain this over the
long term and be healthy and lead a
normal lifestyle in the process right so
I think that from a bodybuilding
perspective you sort of need to come to
terms with this right you need to come
to terms with the fact that to be a
normally functioning human you're going
to have to put on some body fat after
your competition and you're gonna have
to become comfortable with that new body
composition that you're gonna acquire
and it's okay that it isn't necessarily
sustainable over the long term I think
that it would be wrong to look at it as
something that's sustainable over the
long term that's a little that's that's
actually a specific look it's a little
bit different than an approach being
sustainable over the long term and I
think that there are things that we can
do to sort of make the approach more
sustainable so flexible dieting for
example would be one thing that can help
people be more adherent over you know a
period of months and years rather than a
strict meal plan that they're supposed
to follow for these twelve weeks and
then the competition's over and they
don't know what to do from here yeah
yeah that's been my experience with that
sort of idea as far as the realm of
peril thing we can give a pretty
concrete example with a well known
template program called small off and
for those that don't know a small it is
it's a very intensive squat cycle that
has a ton of volume you're squatting
very frequently and very heavy and it's
it's basically the opposite of something
that's sustainable because you get to
the end of it if you get to the end of
it right right but if you do you know
you're rewarded with relatively large
PRS but it's just something that's not
sustainable because it's not something
you can do
back-to-back or something that is going
to ultimately build the best athlete
over the long term so so that's a pretty
pretty concrete example of the opposite
approach so bowling is great too much
volume will cause progress but we we end
up with a circumstance where in order to
progress further after you've done
something like that you're going to need
that amount of volume or more in order
to make progress because progressive
adaptation requires an increasing volume
over you know periods of time so so it's
a it's a little bit of a trap because
you'll have to increase volume after
that and that's just not sustainable so
these power lifting to win yeah we're
like sorry he he was saying that like
forcing the like volume you're getting
like diminishing returns or something
from it and like you're not able to
progress like you like it overreach by
the volume but rather if you like spread
the vault like the increase in volume
out over a longer period of time you'll
like your your gains will like match
that a little bit more I'm like really
like using really broad terms or you say
but I think that I think I'm I
understand what you're saying yeah
exactly I mean it's about applying the
right amount of force to cause change
and and not necessarily more than that
if you could pulpit you know I mean like
I could open a door by turning handle or
I can open a door by throwing a
sledgehammer through it one of those is
going to be a more sustainable approach
yeah and I know of people who are brand
new to powerlifting and so they use
Google as their primary resource or
whatever they land on small off after
only probably you know practicing the
lifts for a period of a couple months
and they run small oven they sort of
jumped the gun on all this volume right
whereas they would probably maximize
their progress over a longer period of
time if they would just you know
increase that volume more slowly right
for the people that are kind of just
trying to figure all this stuff out and
figuring out all these these terms
there's an idea that Helms and I were
both thinking about separately but came
together I'm sure you're familiar with
Eric Helms he's got a nutritional
pyramid series that talks about the
importance of different concepts as
related to dieting and your success in
dieting so the bottom is adherence and
then calorie balance and then
macronutrients and micronutrients and so
on and so forth have you seen that yeah
I've watched the series okay anyways I
was thinking it would be really cool to
create something like this for concepts
related to training so adherence
overload training specificity volume
these kind of concepts so that people
know how to rank things as far as their
importance in each other like okay well
specificity is important but what's more
important volume or adherence to a
program or consistency or remaining
injury-free and how do we relate all
these things to each other so I brought
this up to Eric and turns a key who's
already worked no look forward to that
I'm sure soon I think you and Jason
touched on that and the power builder
yeah talk that you guys did for the epic
summit yeah yeah and the strength guys
are currently working on a similar model
so yes it'll be interesting to see how
much overlap there is there but if I
recall correctly I think the bottom
layer was consistency and effort no it
was injury it was the bottom layer was
safety / injury prevention the next
layer up was consistency and effort and
then it went to you know volume
intensity
I think periodization and then advanced
techniques I believe that that was that
was the structure that we used yeah so
you know a lot of people good yeah yeah
yeah so probably you know I want to
collaborate or cross-check a combination
if that could get like as big as the
flexible dieting nutrition pyramids like
macarons pyramids that regime
be really good because I find that like
it's now so mainstream to like have kind
of that more overarching view of how
nutrition should go whereas like
training is now still in the baby step
process of people of like the general
population understanding like what is
the take of like what they need to take
from like periodization or like just
training in general no it would be
really cool if that could get
popularized and you know gone viral like
the nutritional I mean I know we have a
pretty self selected group when it comes
to the type of athlete that's going to
apply to tsa is already someone that
cares about science and exercise science
and knows about raw Trophy balloting and
knows about us
but with those caveats the majority of
people know about flexible dieting and
know about macros absolutely amazing and
it just kind of speaks to the prevalence
of these ideas that even power lifters
coming to us know about this and kind of
happy background knowledge like there
are a lot of very bro power lifters when
it comes to nutrition out there which I
wasn't expecting because like you
because Allah I mean I don't want to say
oh well I would say like power lifters
generally know more about training than
bodybuilders but like they definitely
just don't like from my experience know
a lot about nutrition like I mean online
it's starting to but but yeah it is
really cool to see like power lifters
who are like already doing i fo am and
flexible dieting and stuff like that and
yeah yeah there's just so much dogma
surrounding powerlifting in terms of
nutrition since like our listeners like
to hear Irene I'm funny stories but I
was someone suggested to me that before
my meet I was like depleting like on
1,400 calories like even lower than that
some days and I was trying to get to 103
pounds so I started at 108 like a week
and I was like just trying to get down
there and I was like he suggested that I
only eat salad with deep fried chicken
strips like so romaine lettuce deep
fried chicken strips and like full fat
barbecue ranch dressing and like that
would get me to my weight Wow I'd love
to eat that right now thank you but you
know I ended up just having plain
chicken and lettuce yeah and I did make
it funny and this I'm not sure if it was
you that posted about this but it really
hits home the point of our
misconceptions about ideas of causation
so it's like this this guy he's a good
lifter and you know he's a friend of
mine and whatever I'm sure he won't mind
if he's listening they were making fun
of him but the idea is that like you
know he probably had this meal right
leading into his meat and he lost weight
and so you attribute the loss and weight
to that specific thing that you changed
right so it's like I could have started
I could have switched from you know
excelled um to like juicy fruit gum in
like my meat prep and lost seven pounds
and said this is the key you just have
and I'm here right there right and so
people don't understand that like just
because something is correlated with
something else it doesn't necessarily
mean that there's a causal link between
the two I mean we're dealing with
complex systems here and have you guys
heard of the term the whoosh sometimes
when I drop two or three pounds all of a
sudden you know that's that that word
speaks itself to the idea that this is
something that's just a complex system
that we don't understand at all and
we're just kind of putting a word in
there to to speak to our ignorance
basically yeah and then it's kind of
similar with power lifters or like
newbie power lifters who run like a
intense phase or volume heavy phase like
small log and
and they go into the when de leurs 531
after that and then all of a sudden they
make like crazy gains and it's because
they just took like a big reduction in
volume and then they're realizing kind
of their their gains from the previous
phase and then they don't even they
don't realize that that's what happened
and then they just attribute it to 531
they're like five three one got me the
biggest gains
yeah yes that's absolutely correct all
right that was a really big tangent yeah
the air column this question Eirik oh
there you go it's just you know
disgusting so we were talking about the
idea of sustainability over the long
term and you're saying that you know
jack and volume are too high too fast
wanting the results too fast wanting the
weight loss yesterday isn't the best
approach to take if you want something
to be sustainable and manageable over
the long term
right yeah I mean and you guys can speak
to the idea to that weight loss that is
lost slower over a longer Peter time is
more likely than kept off and that's
proven by studies as well yes yeah
exactly
yeah I was gonna ask you like you you
talked about this link very briefly but
um I was gonna ask you like do you like
suggest you said you're taking on more
body builder type clients do you suggest
that they do power lifting in the
offseason or like how do you go about
like that like is it something that you
recommend or is it something that you
like wait for them to ask you like how
do you to ask me so essentially the
athlete themselves choose the direction
and as coaches we just try as best as
possible to get them there so again
Helms because he's my mentor
we are the navigators of the ship and
the clients are the captain's so they
decide and we just try to plot the
course to get there so if they decide
hey I want to do powerlifting in my
offseason like alright great this is how
we would go about it you know this is
the plan if they decide I just want to
supply
like okay well this is the way we go
that's cool just from my own experience
I mean you must have to use some
discretion there because some people
come to me with goals or ambitions that
are just so blown out of proportion like
I had one guy who was like 200 pounds
probably 20% body fat who wanted to get
to 256 percent body fat over the course
of this year and you know you just had
to tell those people that this is just
unrealistic I think we'd be better off
focusing on X Y Z of a goal and maybe
you should actually try to cut a little
bit of weight and you might actually
look bigger back you know sometimes as
coach I'm sure you've experienced this
you've sort of got a take baby wanting
to like 200 pounds on their squad and
like the next like 8 weeks or something
happens all the time
we we have an initial Skype call with
all athletes that first start with TSA
where we talk about a lot of things
answer questions for them discuss more
of what we're about and talk about their
goals and in that you know we're trying
to among other things we're trying to
figure out how we write for this person
and is this person right for us and part
of that is are they asking unrealistic
things of us and you know we always try
to be as realistic as possible because
it sets up for a better success and you
know sometimes that's that's great we're
like yes we can do this let's go it's
gonna be awesome and sometimes we're
like okay well you know we can be part
of that or this is what's realistic and
this is what could happen but over a
longer period of time and I think I
don't ever think those those answers and
those discussions are taken the wrong
way I think it's always taken as we're
trying to help this person ultimately
get to the best that they can be because
it's before they've even signed on kind
of thing sure yeah yeah yeah
so one thing Bryce that I'd like to
quickly touch on is the idea of
intrinsic and extrinsic motivation so
Jason the president of the strength guys
and I collaborated on an article called
training like the pros
Khai greens are what we can learn from
KY green or something like that and
basically we said that you know his
whole idea about training is that it all
sort of starts with the mind right and
that you need to focus on being
intentional with all of your movements
and everything like this and so we sort
of made the case that this is true
there's a lot of truth to that in that
you know being sort of directed by your
thoughts is a good way to approach
training and this sort of lends credence
to the value of intrinsic motivation so
actually being motivated because you
find the task fulfilling in and of
itself rather than because of some
external factor so I guess my question
is is do you think that there's any
relationship here between intrinsic
motivation and long-term success in
powerlifting that's a great question and
just playing devil's advocate here I'm
trying to compare my mind a person
that's motivated by extrinsic goals and
a person that's motivated by intrinsic
goals and what they both actually do to
get the work done and I'm wondering if
you'd end up with different results in
either case so for instance in some
cases the motivation is important and in
some cases it's secondary to what
they're actually doing with their bodies
and what they're putting in their bodies
but yeah I've read a little bit of
literature in sports psychology about
this and it does seem to be the case
actually I read one study where they
what did they say they artificially
supplied intrinsic motivation to the
subjects I don't know how you would do
that how you would fall for that in a
study but they supposedly ran this you
know parallel arm trial where they had
one group that was externally motivated
they probably I don't know I mean they
could have gave them like an Instagram
account and gave them a bunch of likes
or something and
the entrance in transit group they gave
them a bunch of exercises they actually
enjoyed I have no idea what they did but
what they found was that at the end of
the study the intrinsic group
consistently and significantly
outperformed the extrinsic group now
whether this would actually carry over
into the real world or not I argue that
like a combination of both would be like
maybe ideal I mean I find personally of
that like ID like I'm intrinsically
motivated I for sure were but like I
definitely gained a lot from being like
involved in a community where everyone's
kind of doing the same thing and
everyone's like supportive of each other
and posting about their progress and
stuff in like others people's progress
motivates me as well so yeah I think
we're not likely to find people that are
strictly intrinsic it's gonna be mixed
but you know which thing is true then
you know it's an interesting point that
having your own motivations and your own
reasons for doing things are I think in
practice that's going to be more likely
to get you to do the things when no
one's watching you yeah you know
motivational quotes to say that yeah
exactly that it's what you do when no
one's watching that that's the real mark
of success but that speaks danger music
motivation for shortly yeah I would if I
was to stand on one side of this
question I would say that being
intrinsically motivated or predominantly
intrinsically motivated it would lead to
more longevity like you're more likely
to stick around for longer if you're
genuinely intrinsically motivated by
something rather than you know just
seeking out external sources of
validation or reward or whatever it may
be that is just a hypothesis but to me
it seems like I stick around to the
tasks that I genuinely enjoy and that I
like
in their own right and things that I
that I'm doing just because I think I
should be doing it or whatever I tend to
veer away from like for example I I was
I don't know if you know this about me
but I was two years deep into a
dentistry program here in Halifax so I
had two years worth of a doctor of did
you know that yeah yeah so anyway else I
was I was two years deep into that
program and decided that it wasn't
something I was genuinely passionate
about and I'd rather pursue a different
discipline and so I mean I feel like
this is kind of the way it goes right if
you're not actually genuinely passionate
or or fulfilled by a certain thing then
you're probably not going to be as
likely to stay with it over the long
term or if you do stay like it it might
feel like it's a little bit forced or
something right yeah so again playing
devil's out here I'm trying to think
like hey you know being skeptic and
stuff let's let's figure out ways around
this I'm trying to think of like Russian
and Chinese weight lifters that
basically are either doing this for
money to feed their families in the case
of Chinese and lots of cases or huge
sums of money for them or in the case of
some of the Russian stories that I've
heard there they're put in the support
by their parents at a young age they're
not doing it because they love it or
because of any deep reasons they're
doing it because they're being told to
and eventually they either learn to love
it or they don't but they can still
achieve pretty darn high levels of
success - yeah that's true and I guess
that would come back to the idea of how
you're defining their success right so
if their success is just the total that
they post and will yes your external
motivation seems to be doing fine there
but if their success is defined more
internal you let's say right like in an
actual fulfillment or how how good they
feel about what they're doing then maybe
it's not as good I totally think that's
how I would approach that one yeah so so
you did a bodybuilding prep with lean
that's what years right mm-hmm
what do you think that you'll ever do a
bodybuilding again or have you switched
over to powerlifting kind of for good
almost exclusively probably thing
there's a very very slim slim chance
that I would ever go back to the body
building it's not that I didn't find
enjoyment in it
it's just that I got caught in I guess
what we were talking about earlier and
that I got the end of a prep and
competed and placed that whatever
placing I did and look back and thought
was was that really worth it
it was the feeling of competing and
being up there and doing all this work
to get up to that point and the answer
for me was no and that's not to say that
that's a general answer for everyone
it's just you know how it struck me and
then I that I ended up finding a lot
more fulfillment in in powerlifting I
figured that that would be the answer
but but like honey you look awesome
though like I thought you throw that
Thursday a photo with you and like you I
thought it would be interesting to see
you how if you've made a lot of
improvements in your physique over the
course of the last I don't know when did
you compete I feel like you would be
good person ask 2012 or something like
that right idea my last competition
actually no it had to be way before that
2010 my last year of college I think I
competed in a competition one thing I am
considering though is dropping down to
the 183 s for a few competitions which I
would look pretty darn lean and if I was
to do that you'd also be a beast in that
way there's a lot of winning breezes the
stacked Platts and actually this year at
IP of your worlds there's three people
with nominated totals that are a half a
kilo apart in that weight class oh wow
that's so it's gonna be it's gonna be
awesome to see yeah for sure
are you are you going to Worlds Bryce no
no I'll be watching the live feed this
time okay cool yeah oh we now I just
thought of another question because it
really pertains to mean I don't know if
I'd have another opportunity to ask it
but how do you feel about losing
strength while cutting down to a lighter
weight class and like how do you have
your clients ever do this and how do you
help like I found psychologically it was
a very very hard for me to do and to
like just not be able to perform as I
it will t like at a heavier weight yeah
so that's my question that's something
that we deal with quite a lot so first
athletes tend to want to drop down to
weight classes even if they're not going
to be competitive in that weight class
they just want you mean they want to
drop down to see other people you know
coming at the top of that weight classes
and they want to do the same so we have
the conversation about hey is dropping
down really a good idea right now and we
talked about that and ultimately you
know like we said with the Navitus say
hey we're dropping down then you know we
can give all the advice we want but
ultimately we try to make the plan to
get there and the other thing we try to
do is set up relaxed realistic
expectations of what's going to happen
to strength when we drop down so how
long is the drop going to take and
what's going to happen to strengthen
coming from experience as someone that's
dropped from 198 to 181 back with the
older us APL weight classes I had to
deal with this myself and the way that
it was framed for me is kind of the way
that I tried praying for other people
and that's to understand that
best-case circumstances is preserving
all the strength that you have right now
and if we do better than that you
actually gain strength over this period
of time that's icing on the cake but
realistically I try to tell athletes we
didn't expect to keep about 95% of your
strength and that's a good thing
dropping down a weight class and we
talked about improvements in wilkes core
instead of global improvements or we
talk about what multiple of your body
weight your deadlift is so instead of a
1.5 deadlift that may have been 400
pounds now you're doing 3 pounds but
it's a to 2 times your body weight a
deadlift or something like that so we
talk about relative strength and that
that factors into the wilkes core as
well so just like we talked about before
we just reframe progress great and do
you program differently for athletes
really cutting a lot of weight cuz I
found with me like I was just having
terrible recovery like oh it just I just
I only trained four days a week but I
was barely able to recover from a
training sessions
so it depends on I guess how severe the
caloric depths that we have to get an
athlete in but we try as much as
possible not to change training but if
we find that an athlete isn't recovering
from training and RPS or just way too
high then we'll make some tweaks to to
make sure that's not happening and that
we're getting sufficient volume in still
but stuff it's not just beating them up
terribly I have a quick question for you
about your programming and what you just
said then reminded me of it yeah you you
do percentage based programs right so we
mix it depends on athletes we run some
athletes with fully auto regulated
programs some athletes with fully
percentage based and some athletes where
say the assisting stuff is auto
regulated and the main stuff is
percentage based right I prefer doing
percentage based stuff I kind of feel
like I have more control of what's going
on yeah I agree
so you said then if the air peas are
getting a little bit too high do you get
your athletes to report their
self-perceived
our peas or whatever you or do you give
them a target to hit and then have them
run with that to you or how does that
work so if I'm running percentage based
programs what I've been doing and it's
been pretty successful from a coaching
perspective he's happy athlete track
last set are peas so say they're doing
three sets of four at 75% whatever their
last set RPE is I have them put that
down that way I get an idea of how
fatigued they are and I can essentially
autorai auto regulate the program for
them or it's not auto regulation because
it's not them doing it but I laid the
program for them by adjusting training
loads going forward if needed so it's it
seems to be a nice balance between the
rigidity of going in and having a load
that you're supposed to hit and the
flexibility of those loads not being so
fix that they never changed yeah I think
that's a fantastic idea
yeah wow that's really cutting edge yeah
all right so I guess that that's that's
everything unless you had another
question Rob yeah I had bonus questions
all right bright so you enjoy the rest
of your night thank you very much and
thanks for coming on of course see you
guys later see you right
you