hey guys dr. initial here for
presentation number eight our very last
section in exercise physiology and
talking about the cardiovascular system
now I'm really going to breeze through
this stuff and kind of just say a little
bit about some of the slides because a
lot of the stuff you just kind of have
to look at understand the numbers and
understand the systems but it's really
not very complicated that has many
concepts in here as there are just facts
so we're just going to roll through the
concepts as best as we can probably just
about a 10 minute video here so let's
get started
there we go all right so in general the
cardiovascular system is involving three
components a pump which is the heart a
system of channels which is the heart
and the blood vessels and of course a
fluid B in which in our case is blood
right as long as you understand those
three components
everything else is quite simple it's
just details now the right side of the
heart is known as the pulmonary circuit
as part of the pulmonary circuit there's
the right side of the heart taste blood
shoots it over to the lungs belongs take
the carbon dioxide out of that blood put
an oxygen into it it comes back to the
left side the left side is the systemic
circuit or the systemic side it takes
blood from the left ventricle which is
the biggest part of the heart really
powerful the left ventricle has to
contract and push blood all the way on
the heart to the rest of the body then
it comes back into the right side and
get shuttled back into the law
so a variety of blood vessels accomplish
this whole sort of act of pushing blood
through the body we have the aorta which
is the larger the vessel of the entire
body which and then we have vessels of
smaller and smaller sizes now on the
side of the systemic circuit or pushing
oxygenated blood into the body we have
arteries that branch off majority riyals
that branch off into capillaries or
actual gas exchange with the muscles
then all the other body structures
occurs that capillaries are no longer
just for transport they actually move
nutrients to and from the inside and
outside the blood once the capillaries
we get out of the capillaries venules
collect all that blood begins into veins
and then the vena canvas ends of all the
way back into the heart so the interval
all different sizes from largest to
smallest back to largest again the
cardiac cycle has to sneak components
relaxation which is known as diastole
it's the filling of blood into the heart
and that lasts about two-thirds of the
time and one-third of the time or so we
have systole which is the contraction in
the injection of blood out from the
heart into the rest of the system and
this is accomplished through the muscle
of the heart so the ventricles and the
atria are actually all one line muscle
it's all connected through or called
intercalated discs so when one part of
the heart contracts the rest of the
heart contract shortly thereafter so
force isn't one fluid part let me show
you guys exactly in what order it works
so here's this pretty good diagram here
the SA node is where the signal to
contract really kind of starts and the
heart starts to contract so essentially
the signal hits the SA node gets into
the AV node who is only not an AV bundle
or the bundle of His
also called goes through the bundle
branches and then into the Purkinje
fibers so essentially the Purkinje
fibers start to retract the heart of the
bottom in because the heart contracts
from the bottom up this forms the
squeezing motion of the heart so the
heart does just love the blood in on
itself because if you take a water
balloon and just smoosh it together well
that's the water doesn't really go
anywhere in particular but the heart
contracts in such a way due to this
arrangement that blood starts at the
bottom he gets pulled up to the top and
exits all the right valves at the right
times all right so there's actually an
order to this process we're going to
skip all the details on that heart rate
is controlled primarily by the nervous
system the parasympathetic nervous
system gives the heart vagal tone the
through the vagus nerve it actually
produces the heart rate and the
contractility of the heart and a stroke
volume of each contraption the amount of
blood we feed on the other hand the
sympathetic nervous system through a
variety of ways makes the heart beat
faster and contract harder each time to
get warmed up so during exercise your
sympathetic nervous system is activated
and allows your heart to perform its
function of getting blood around and
during recovery and rest the
parasympathetic nervous system is
dominant so your heart rate isn't very
high and not a whole lot happens with
high levels of blood normal resting
heart rate for most people is about
between 60 and 85 beats per minute all
right so the stroke volume is actually a
pretty simple to calculate is the amount
of blood pumped per contraction during
systole how much one can get with each
single beat there's a process to
calculate that we'll talk about in class
the cardiac output is really quite
simple the symbol for a cardiac alkaloid
you gotta remember this is Q it's really
simple how much of blood you pump for
each beat which is stroke volume
multiplied by heart rate which is the
number beats per minute so if your heart
beats by ton of what each single time it
pushes out a lot of blood has a high
volume and you get up to your maximal
heart rates of the heart rates really
high your cardiac output is going to be
the highest possible so when you're
doing really vigorous exercise and your
cardiac output needs to be as high as it
possibly can
we know there's two ways to get there on
your heart has to be beating really hard
so if you ever done a really hard
exercise you can put your hand on the
left side right underneath your chest
and you hear you can feel your heart
opens contracting really hard a ton of
stroke volume pretty to eat and if the
exercises super duper heart or heart
rate will hole so we are really really
really high so through that combination
to get the maximum cardiac output or the
amount of blood circulating to the
highest it can be
all right the vascular system plays an
important role of course of transporting
this blood the capillaries actually
undergo nutrient exchange interestingly
enough the veins particularly the veins
of the legs store a lot of blood for
later a lot of your blood right now if
you're watching this and not exercising
if you're simply resting most of your
blood is sitting in the veins it's being
circulated around but it's being pulled
in your veins to a large extent if you
try to stand up for a very long time and
not contract any of your leg muscles so
what can pull your things you actually
pass out it's called postural
hypotension happens very very rarely but
most of the time this doesn't happen
when you start exercising one way to get
that blood out of your veins and towards
the rest of your system fast is because
when you're exercising your calves are
contracting your quads are contracting
the things have one-way valves if you
press out then the blood shoots in both
directions but because it's a one-way
valve that can only go up one and all
that blood starts to return to the heart
that's called the skeletal muscle pump
it's very important for getting blood
back into the heart when we need it now
as far as blood distribution is
concerned at rest a lot of your blood
goes to your brain and a lot of it goes
to your core organs your heart your
liver etc and not a ton of it goes into
your muscles in your skin because you're
not using them once you start exercising
the more vigorously you start exercising
first of all the total amount of blood
circulating goes up because we take
blood from our veins those giant
reservoirs and we put them into general
circulation again so the blood amount
goes up but not just that the amount of
what go into your heart and your lungs
and everything else stays about the same
but the amount of blood that goes into
the muscle multiplies many-fold spend in
reality you start exercising your blood
starts to circulate
really really fast your muscles why
because it has to give nutrients to your
muscles particularly oxygen and it has
to give waste products out so when you
start exercising the harder Rd exercise
the more blood circulates and the higher
proportion of blood circulates to your
muscles we have got a pretty cool chart
down the line for that where is that
chart so a couple of things before we
get to showing you how that works we
have just some stuff I'm look right here
there's a concept called mean arterial
pressure it's essentially the average of
your systolic and diastolic blood
pressure but it factors in the fact that
diastolic blood pressure is most of what
you experience because they absolutely
have last longer your mean arterial
blood pressure is kind of like your
average blood pressure and of course the
best little constriction increases blood
pressure and if your vessels are dilated
blood pressure goes down as far as blood
composition what is composed of
essentially two large fractions plasma
which is kind of live with the part of
your blood and the form elements most of
which are the hematocrit or red blood
cells
females are male generally have more
hemoglobin and thus more oxygen carrying
capacity they have more red blood cells
mostly due to testosterone females have
less generally speaking the more red
blood cells you have the better up till
about 60% after that the chances of a
random blood clot happening are really
high your blood gets so viscous that
actually gets dangerous you don't want
to go that far some endurance athletes
that have used drugs in order to get
their red blood cell count really high
sometimes they'll just die randomly in
the middle of the night because their
blood gets so viscous it just forms a
one-pot that's that's the evidence all
right so some details on red blood cells
will cover the stuff in class keep a
little bit of horses inside
one seller uses an IR attractor to
transport oxygen capable of a transports
oxygen numerous many fool to that times
better than just plain old blood
so hemoglobin is essential to oxygen
transport and actually to carbon dioxide
transport as well and this is of course
a blood viscosity we're just talking
about that alright so yeah resting heart
rate average of 60 to 80 beats per
minute right test the increase with age
and increased part of ASCO Fitness there
are people who are so known in order to
support their stroke volumes are so high
puppy because their hearts are so large
and strong and advanced that they aren't
in the 30s in the resting heart rate
that means once every two seconds or so
their heart beats which is really really
low people who are tend to be in worse
shape people who tend to be more obese
their heart rates tend to be higher than
80 beats per minute if there are entire
resting heart rate that 100 beats per
minute probably means you're in very
lower than 60 and it probably means
you're really good at all of the things
we need maximum heart beat very
important concept humans have a maximum
heart rate of about 220 beats per minute
and they hit that weather zero years old
so toddlers have a max heart rate of
about 220 beats per minute heart rate
falls by about to be per minute every
year after that
so 220 minus your 80 meters is how you
calculate max heart rate so 20 year olds
have an average max heart rate of about
200 eats per minute four-year-olds have
bottomed max of 180 now there's a pretty
big standard deviation they're just over
10 meters per minute watched an invasion
so a lot of people have max heart rate
age 20 of 1
a lot of people have a max heart rate of
210 very few people have a mass heart
rate of 220 and above when they're 20
years old because that's already more
than two standard deviations out so most
people a good estimate 225 this page is
where most people's backs are but it's
gonna be here's the thing about max
Hartman it doesn't really change the
training your max heart rate almost
never goes up it never goes down it's
almost entire to determine my age all
right
Stroeve on however does change stroke
volume largely depends on the shape of
your heart and if it's hypertrophy to an
adequate extent is the heart muscle
strong as you train it inner sporto
volume goes up which means that further
the same heart rate because part weights
maxed out you can pump more blood it
turns out these can get more blood
flowing past the muscles that means they
get more oxygen to the muscles always
out they can be better than during sport
cardiac output ha there we go
here's our super important so here's a
graph of relative cardiac output during
exercise so rest light exercise heavy
and maximal I want you to take a look at
this blue section of the chart that's
the muscle muscle as you can tell it's a
more and more and more relative amount
of blood during harder harder and harder
exercise so when you're at rest
muscle gets just about the same amount
of blood as everything else the harder
your exercise is most of your blood flow
starts going to the muscle which is
important because that's where all the
action is now this is relative it's on a
percent scale let's look at what happens
absolutely actually measuring blood flow
in liters per minute or something like
that boom at rest this mole fraction of
blood goes on your muscles most upper
one is sitting in your veins get maximal
exercise almost all of your blood goes
into your muscles in all liver and
kidneys and everything else on skin it's
very little blood flow of whatsoever so
maximal exercise hey your body knows
what it's doing most of your blood is
going to your muscles to get oxygen in
and to get wastes out plain and simple
alright a lot of pressure changes during
exercise during cardiovascular exercise
your systolic blood pressure increases
in proportion to the intensity goes all
the way up to a high level of blood
pressure if you're going back suddenly
your diastolic should really change if
your diastolic pressure goes up a lot
during maximal endurance exercise it's
probably abnormal and it doesn't mean
anything good on the other hand
resistance exercise especially if you're
squatting a ton of weight the systolic
and diastolic blood pressure can get up
to 4
that's crazy it's actually not dangerous
if you're healthy it's not a problem and
it could be actually beneficial in the
long term but it's expected that during
resistance exercise during the actual
lifting your blood pressure could go
really really really high now our last
concept for today I believe is
cardiovascular drift here's the concept
of cardiovascular drift you take one
person you put them on a treadmill
haven't run at a steady state for an
hour and what tends to happen is they
start at steady state with a certain
heart rate okay you know they're under
20 beats per minute they'll be just fine
after a couple of them after 20 minutes
30 minutes 40 minutes 50 minutes their
heart rate steadily goes up even though
they don't get hurt the treadmill is go
this seems to be the whole time so
results from dehydration as the person
runs they lose body water let's say
we're not letting them drink any water
so they started a certain heartbeat
because they have a certain amount of
blood volume and they need to circulate
that blood past the muscles that are
certain rate okay fine so they have a
certain amount of blood they need to get
to the muscles a certain rate the heart
beats at a certain rate we have a
certain stroke line now what happens
with dehydration the total amount of
blood starts to go down each volume
starts to go down so now our body in
order to get the same amount of blood
needs to compensate by increasing the
heart rate so cardiovascular driven
occurs due to dehydration the body
increases heart rate to make up for it
how do you prevent cardiovascular from
happening you stay hydrated is
dehydrated and during the race their
heart rate stays lower and you're
capable with exerting yourself for much
longer that's all I have as a matter of
fact that's all I have for the semester
good luck on your quizzes and final and
at this point I'll see you never again
just kidding