Arnold did it the way you said is not
ideal yeah guess what Arnold didn't have
all the answers yet but he's Arnold so
he
[Music]
did folks I'm Dr Mike from sance
periodization and this is my dear friend
actual friend in real life meno
henselman meno is one of my go-to
fitness authorities if I want to find
out about some stuff on some stuff first
of all I look at just pictures of meno
then I look at videos of meno with a
mute on and then actually go read his
lit reviews some of his summary
literature reviews are the best in the
business and he just happens to be the
person who has probably the best PT
course on the entire internet hands down
I tried to take it I didn't pass but
that means it's a really high bar
another thing meno is known for and he's
known for very many things including
looking almost exactly like gigachad guy
I guess is what people tell me I guess
we don't have to kiss right now um meno
has been an innov from day one on unique
exercises that are biomechanically at
the very least justifiable and often
very compelling things you don't have to
do but exercises that you can try in the
gym which you may not have seen before
or the version you've seen of them isn't
exactly what we would call remotely
close to Ideal man was a sharp
 he's thought the
through and he's going to show you some
exercises from the countries of Europe
and if you're not from the Netherlands
if you attempt these exercises you will
die in the only warning we have men are
you ready let's
go so let's talk about biceps training
most people do biceps training
traditionally with dumbbells bar balls
and that's actually biomechanically very
suboptimal for the biceps because in the
bottom position there is no tension on
the biceps gravity just pulls down and
with a dumble or a barble you're moving
this way so in the very bottom position
no tension on the muscle why is that
important the bottom position for the
biceps is uniquely important because it
is the position where the biceps is
relatively stretched where you get
stretch mediate apery potentially lots
of new research on that Mike has covered
on his channel already Plus in the case
of the biceps the length tension
relationship is relatively unique in
that you also have the highest active
muscle tension so the biceps is
literally the strongest internally in
the bottom position if you have no
tension there you are neglecting both
active and passive tension so regardless
of how you feel about the stretch media
hypertrophy literature and all of that
you simply don't get the maximum tension
if you don't overload the biceps
throughout a larger range of motion
recipe use a cable but unlike most
people where they stand in front of a
cable they do like
this again very little tension in the
bottom position and at this point when
the arm is in line with the cable no
more tension so what do you do you stand
the other way you have to keep the elbow
forward a little bit and then you do a
bicep Sr like this and what you can also
do you can see that I'm moving
as I curl I move forward to get high
tension in the contracted position and
in the lengthen position so you get very
high tension in the bicep throughout the
entire range of motion now you can
customize this exercise if you stand
further away from the cable for example
you see that it changes the angle of the
cable a little bit if you stand very
much here it's more upright less tension
in a bottom position you stand very far
away more tension in the bottom position
when you start feeling that the arm is
getting dragged back a lot probably a
little bit too much tension in the
bottom position so you want to find an
angle or move the cable up where you
feel good tension in the bottom position
but you can keep the arm stable so if
you move it up to all the way here for
example now bottom position is super
heavily loaded and you have to actively
engage to keep the arm here most people
find if you do it like this the arm gets
draged back what I like to do then if
you really want to overload the bottom
position stand a little bit to the side
like this and curl this way now you see
that if you get into this kind of
position position where the cable starts
bending around your arm no bueno you
don't want this again you lose the
tension whole point of this exercise not
to go use super heavy weights massive
Progressive overload it's to get maximum
tension throughout a full range of
motion for the biceps and especially the
bottom position so use your body
position to accommodate the resistance
curve and get that high tension
throughout the entire range of motion uh
what's is there something particularly
wrong with the arm vending back like if
I can curl here is that okay or do I
have to have my elbow close to my body
good question you can get let the arm
get curled back at least decent amount
this for example you do get actually
more stretch because the biceps also
crosses the shoulder so you get even
more stretch in the biceps if you value
that a lot just like with an an incline
curl you know if you're on the bench
you're sitting like this you're also
kind of curling from this position
imagine me on a bench so that can work
it's a little awkward and if you get to
like this position again you lose the
tension right this far back when the arm
and the cable are perfectly in line with
any exercise good rule of Thum check if
your arm is in line with the cable
because there's no tension in any
direction other than like a shrug
Perfect all right what's
next so another biceps curl variation
that is good to overload the stretch
position is the concentration curl but
most people do a concentration curl like
this arm straight down and then really
focusing on that so here you have
maximum tension right so they really
focusing on this level essentially of
the biceps now you have essentially no
tension here and very high tension here
and here it's actually still pretty
light not so great if you look at the
length tension curves and the stretch
media pery research so what you want is
you want high tension in a bottom
position well how do you achieve that
without using a cable which would be a
really awkward setup this
way what you can do is you can lean a
little bit back and the nice thing about
this compared to say a preacher curl is
that you can do it anywhere so you do a
standard concentration curl except you
lean into it so you still have tension
here and you curl up like this you can
do lengthen partials like this or you
can do the full range of motion like
this and you see that you get about that
45Â° angle in the bottom position and
again depending on how well you tolerate
the stretch some people have our time
with their elbows for example you can do
a little bit more like a normal
concentration
curl and if you really want to overload
that stretch you can really go like this
oh
yeah get out
of it's
 you're not going to get
anywhere like that if you're quitting
all the time Arnold did it the way you
said is not ideal yeah guess what Arnold
didn't have all the answers yet but he's
Arnold so he did yeah I think a general
good point about all these things like
these days it's often Mike mener said
yes Arnold swarzenegger said Rony
Coleman said D the thing is you can find
bodybuilders that say one thing say the
other thing and if you look at very big
picture the things that they do really
have in common is they train really hard
typically really good genetics you just
need exceedingly good genetics to get to
the top of the top of the top plus
special sport supplements and then they
do with very high effort and dedication
and consistency for a very long period
of time they get these Basics right and
then Within These Basics there's a big
range of people training completely to
failure people doing high volume not to
failure some people doing high frequency
low frequency this exercise that
exercise when you have all these
massively important things dialed in for
20 years all these other things of
training that we are talking about they
are not as important as whether you just
have zoos like genetics or whether
you're on sport supplements or not and
especially if we're talking one gr or
two G or four G yeah I caught a little
bit of a pump man boys out here baby
hold up hold up hold
up
yeah skull overs are A variation of
Skull Crushers big difference between
skull overs and Skull Crushers is that
skull overs don't your elbows plus
you can use the lats a little bit to get
some accommodating resistance so here's
how the skull overs look you want to be
all the way at the end of the B
and then if you were doing a scull
Crusher right it's like this now scroll
over you
get go over the head now you don't want
to go all the way like this because now
you have no tension on the triceps so
you want to end up in a position kind of
like here where there's still tension on
the triceps again you don't want the
forearm to be fully vertical so you want
to end up like here which often also
means you need to move the head
up
and this just by slightly changing the
elbow movement is much easier on the
elbows it's been a lifesaver for many of
my
clients I'll cut you guys right off
before you comment all the guys
used to do is back in the day in the 80s
you didn't invent you
 nerd see I did it for you you're
welcome now you can shut the
up folks hopefully you can try some of
these exercises again variation is a
spectrum it's a Continuum there are lots
of right answers and maybe one of these
is the right answer for you we're not
saying these are superior exercises to
do all the time we're saying for a Mesa
cycle two three or four give these a
shot if the stimulus to fatigue ratio
for you is awesome then definitely
consider it meno where can people find
you to get more information about all
your good stuff well now I am on YouTube
at men. Hansons and on Instagram mostly
active there also mens.com if you're
interested in a free email course it's a
great way to get acquainted with my
Concepts but for most people seeing this
probably my YouTube is the most uh what
you like when I'm scrolling on Instagram
and trying to figure out like which cute
boy to jack off to sometimes meno
comes up and he's got these awesome
posts where it's a multiple slider of
like little paragraphs about this recent
study or recent group of study or lit
review he's mythbusting if you add him
on Instagram you're just going to learn
a ton of and realize that you're
not nearly as good-looking as you
thought and maybe you weren't a real man
that never grew to adult hide and this
why you have no
[Music]
friends