so i'll just say it up front if you want
to build bigger biceps the truth is that
you really don't need anything too fancy
your biceps are the smallest major
muscle group on your body their function
is pretty straightforward and they're
already getting a decent amount of
stimulation just from your compound back
exercises alone so this is not an area
of your training that you need to obsess
over you don't need 10 different unique
revolutionary curling variations to
build big arms and a pretty high
percentage of the biceps training advice
that you find all over youtube and
social media these days is really just
unnecessary fluff created solely for
clicks and views now that said
a you definitely still want to be doing
some direct biceps work for maximum
gains uh compound back training on its
own won't be enough to build the biggest
arms possible and b there are certain
biceps exercises and specific form cues
that are more effective than others and
that you can use to get the very most
bang for your buck so in this video i'm
going to give you three of my top rated
curling variations that you can try out
during your next biceps workout i've
been doing this fitness stuff for over
20 years now and i've definitely run the
gauntlet when it comes to biceps
exercises but these are three of my
all-time favorites that i frequently
come back to and that i'm sure you're
going to find useful as well i'll give
one to emphasize the shortened position
one to emphasize the stretched position
and one that provides a pretty even mix
of both all right biceps curl variation
at number one is gonna focus on the
shortened position and give you a really
strong contraction at the top of each
rep and that is a spider curl so this is
not a biceps exercise you'll see being
performed very often it was a really
popular lift back in the sort of golden
bodybuilding era guys like larry scott
steve reeves vince gironda they used to
do this exercise a lot and apparently it
wasn't uncommon for gyms to actually
have a dedicated spider curl bench now
you're almost certainly not going to
find that piece of equipment at your gym
nowadays so what you can do instead is
just lay across a regular incline bench
this position is going to emphasize the
top half of the movement and not that
feeling the muscle is everything okay
it's just one factor out of many when
gauging the effectiveness of your
exercises but you are really gonna feel
your biceps lighting up on these now
keep in mind that any basic curling
exercise you perform is gonna train your
entire biceps muscle as a whole however
the forward position of the shoulders
here will put a bit more emphasis on the
short head which is that inner portion
having your body pinned down like this
is going to prevent you from using
excessive momentum you're definitely
going to need to go lighter here in
comparison to a regular standing curl
and you can do this using an easy curl
bar like i'm doing here or you can use a
regular straight bar uh dumbbells are an
option as well if you prefer it or if
it's not too much of a pain in the ass
to set up and you want to try it out
cables would be an option here as well
all right the second biceps exercise is
going to be an extended cable curl so
this one is going to take the opposite
approach to the spider curl and
emphasize the stretched position with a
bit more focus on the long head which is
that area responsible for the biceps
peak so there's a couple ways you can do
this my favorite is to stand in between
a dual cable stand facing away from the
machine and then take a couple steps
forward so that you can really feel the
cables pulling back on your arms and
stretching your biceps at the bottom
then from there just curl the handles up
like normal coming up as far as you can
without letting your elbows drift
excessively forward now a bit of
movement at the elbows is totally fine
it's not a death sentence that's going
to instantly shift all the tension away
from your biceps and onto your front
delts like some people make it seem you
don't need to lift like a complete
perfect robot here but you also don't
want to be loading up a ton of weight
and just heaving the cables around using
a bunch of momentum this is more of an
isolated lift where you want to
emphasize control and aside from doing
this two arms at a time if you don't
have access to a dual cable stand or you
just prefer doing it one arm at a time
then any regular cable machine will do
and you can just train each side
independently this single arm variation
was popularized by meno henselmans and
it's usually called a bayesian curl but
regardless of which one you do the main
benefit is that nice stretch you're
getting in the bottom position and then
even as you curl the weight up the
biceps are going to be under full
tension all the way to the top now if
you don't have access to cables and you
want a free weight curling movement to
emphasize that stretched position then a
regular incline dumbbell curl is a
really good option as well cables will
train your biceps through a slightly
larger active range but the difference
is definitely not going to be some kind
of make or break factor and incline
dumbbell curls are also an excellent
movement if you're finding this
information helpful so far don't forget
to subscribe to the channel to stay in
the loop on all of my future videos
where i cover exercises for other muscle
groups as well and lastly number three
on the list of best biceps exercises so
with all these youtube fitness gurus and
instagram influencers constantly
uploading their brand new list of six
killer biceps exercises you absolutely
must do or your arms are going to
shrivel up and fall off and die a
horrible death and where they're pretty
much just coming up with whatever elbow
flexion variation they possibly can
dream up just so that they have
something novel to present to you
because of that this exercise tends to
get lost in the shuffle however before
fitness social media was a thing this
was an exercise we used to do quite a
bit back in the day it's a highly
effective way to train your biceps i
actually used this as my primary
movement for several years in a row and
made the majority of my initial arm
gains from it perhaps you've never even
heard of this one before but that
exercise is
a barbell curl yes a barbell curl you
pick up a barbell
and you curl it now why am i including
barbell curls on this list well number
one it's to emphasize the fact that you
honestly don't need anything fancy to
get in a very solid biceps workout and
number two it's because barbell curls
genuinely are one of the best options
for your biceps training you don't need
any special equipment or elaborate setup
to perform them and they've got a pretty
balanced resistance profile that will
stimulate your entire biceps muscle
effectively i honestly believe that if
you're lifting with proper form you are
training close to or all the way to
muscular failure and you're
progressively overloading in an
intelligent way you could probably build
your biceps pretty close to their
genetic potential just off this one
movement alone when combined with your
compound back training now i'm not
recommending that you do that but the
bottom line is that good old-fashioned
barbell curls are a time-tested proven
biceps builder that just work plain and
freakin simple you can use a regular
straight bar or an easy curl bar if it's
more comfortable for you or instead of
doing barbell curls you could also use
dumbbells and just do a basic standing
dumbbell curl same idea if you want some
more help getting your overall fitness
program onto the right path based on
where you are now and what your ultimate
goals are then make sure to head over to
shawnell.com custom if you haven't
already just fill out the short form
there and i'll send you back not only a
free step-by-step workout plan based on
your needs but also a nutrition plan as
well i'll link it up here as well as
down below in the description box
there's two more videos i'd recommend
checking out now don't forget to
subscribe to the channel and turn on
notifications thanks for watching guys
and i'll talk to you again soon