why does keto work so well there are
four good reasons one is that if you
switch to keto which means cutting out
almost or pretty much all carbs your
junk food options become very reduced
and the way that most people get fatter
and stay fatter is they eat a lot of
junk let's go through a quick list of
junk pizza ice cream cookies cakes
candies pastas soda need I go on which
one of those food or food groups or food
types did not have a ton of carbs in it
all of them have a ton of carbs in there
so if you say I'm keto they look around
the food they're allowed to eat and it
turns out that none of it's very junky
the real kicker with junk food is that
it's so delicious and so packed with
calories you're going to end up eating a
lot of it and that's going to confer so
many calories you're going to gain
weight you're going to eat more calories
than you actually burn but when you
switch to keto I mean what you eating
them calories with dog what you cheating
on chicken breast and olive oil and nuts
and fatty meats and like like how much
of that can you eat until you're like