hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization I have a
question for you should should you train
your abs oh wait go ahead
do you have your answer yet oh Well
let's see if you're right here we go
should you be training your abs what a
strange question but I promise it's a
real question it's a decades-old
controversy
what gets you abs and by ABS I mean
visible ABS that moment when you pull
your T-shirt off at the beach and that
girl you've always liked but never
really said much to you she's like
ah I'm really gay
Karen she'll cancel you later
oh my God you're
Scott's video guy what do you like
you're in this fantasy now enjoy
um
we all want this eventuality for
ourselves so how the fuck do we get abs
well
is it diet a lot of people say it is is
it cardio doesn't cardio help to get abs
all the runners have abs is it
supplements for sure all abs are made by
Trend and VAR and what other Reddit
supplements do we know clend yes there's
just thrown in boring clone bro I don't
know why but every time I read ignorant
Reddit comments about steroids from
people have clearly never used them I
give them an Eastern European accent and
I don't know I'm also Eastern European
so I guess I can't possibly really
offend anyone in that sort of way but I
find Eastern Europeans uh to be
generally awesome people but every now
and again just really
Kurt look up that word really brutal I
just say stuff and it sounds mean
they're just being honest when it comes
off all wrong
so in any case is it training
should be right I mean they train every
other muscle how do you get abs you
train your abs everyone knows that or do
they
now if we say it's training
we can ask the next question of how does
the training actually impact your abs
for example does the training make them
bigger and make them pop out more
does the training make them more defined
like can you do a bunch of crunches and
get more striations and separations in
your apps Maybe
does it reduce the size of your
midsection a lot of people are like oh
man I got a big old belly I need to
train abs
I wonder how that would work
you could be asking yourself quite
rightly and if you're going to train ABS
in order to get any of those above
things how would you do it because
there's a lot of different type of ab
training and well
probably if we're interested in any
philosophy not all of it can be equally
effective and we should be prepared for
the eventuality that some of it could be
very ineffective altogether lots to
unpack here let's get started so first
of all
how to get apps let's answer that first
first of all you already won everyone
literally everyone has abs already the
thing is they are just covered by a
small to medium to extremely large layer
of body fat that's the real problem so
if you reduce the fat that covers your
abs you will have abs which means that
the ultimate way to get abs in the by
far most straightforward is to impose a
calorie deficit that results from a
combination of decreasing your dietary
intake and potentially increasing your
physical activity that's ABS that's how
come marathon runners have abs most of
them don't train ABS at all they're
really not even sure why the fuck they
have abs but they do a crazy amount of
physical activity and they can't
possibly eat enough food to make up for
it so they stay at six percent body fat
year round and they all have six packs
they're not doing planks or all this
other bullshit they're none of the gym
training their abs they're sure as hell
not taking steroids they make their abs
bigger they have abs because they're so
lean and that's it so fundamentally
getting abs can require zero AB training
in almost every case however
sometimes once you remove most of the
fat from your midsection and your abs
become visible you realize that your abs
are so small they're just tiny tiny
little abs and that means not the
muscles themselves are necessarily tiny
but they're just not very thick so you
could have this like more feminine
looking midsection where someone's like
yeah I guess you have abs but they don't
really pop they're not gnarly
and that's a thing but it's totally
fixable with AB growth training so at
this point we realize it's not a body
fat issue we're very lean we can see low
veins and we can see our ABS but they
don't pop out as much that is fixable
with hypertrophy training for your ab
musculature which we'll talk about later
how to do exactly
all right
now so that's how to get abscess
primarily through well uh creating a
calorie deficit getting lean training
only modifies higher abs look everyone
has them already here's what AB training
will not do for you get the myth slaying
sword out myth dragons flying up cutting
their heads off you ever think like when
a knight kills a dragon that the the
dragon has maybe like a family back home
and a papa dragon that you killed Mama
dragon and she's flying around and
you're a knight and everyone you know
the princess gives you a blowjob
whatever else happens after you kill a
dragon and then you're sitting all
comfortable and pretty in the cast lyric
I did a good thing and then you know
it's getting pretty late and pop a
dragon back if the house is like gee
Janus the mama dragon's been gone for a
long time he starts to worry the kids
are like
where is Mama and they have the 1930s
little hat on and one of them has a peg
leg Peg Leg Dragon you're you're sitting
in the Castle Post blowjob from the
queen and a princess at the same time
that's right an adult video it's fucked
up you never think about that shit in
any case here's what AB training will
not do for you will not it will not spot
reduce your fat
right now hold on
just connected to all other humans on
Earth it's like cerebro but people
always ask me why the hell does your
head look like that no it's not growth
hormone abuse actually don't abuse
hormone I take it intelligently and I
had a big head before I ever took it but
it is actually because I have a cerebro
from X-Men installed in my skull and
clearly it's bigger so they had to make
my head look funny so I can actually
connect with all people at the same time
right now and find out what all of you
are doing hey hey Jim stop jacking off I
see you doing that shit all right back
to everyone else right now thousands of
people as I connect to the ultraverse
are doing millions of fucking crunches
to try to burn the fat off of their abs
doesn't work
the research on what's called spot
reduction is does local activity of the
muscle does that activity burn the fat
close to that muscle shows us two things
one it's very difficult to measure at
that fine level of precision so we're
not really sure
but that already tells us how little of
that is going on that we can barely
measure the ship some of the studies do
show that there is a spot reduction
effect but it is so fucking teeny tiny
you would have to do kind of an Infinity
number of crunches in order to get your
abs to show
if you just didn't reduce your overall
level of body fat and because your
overall level body fat matters so much
more you can make it so much easier on
yourself and just not do the fucking
crunches at all and just do a calorie
deficit so if you're looking for spot
reduction if you are looking to get abs
by just doing a million crunches you are
doing something that is some combination
of or some uh the truth of it is either
just doesn't do anything at all to burn
the local fat or does so little you'll
never fucking notice that sucks just
don't do that so if people say oh man I
got to burn the fat off my abs how do I
do it what's your answer to tell them in
the break room or work you go just lose
fat all over lose 10 pounds and you'll
see your abs better but what about the
ABS themselves fat will come off mostly
of where you put the fat on and if you
have a lot of Android obesity you put a
lot of fat on your abs and upper body
when you do a calorie deficit that's
where it's going to come off of it's
amazing how that works second thing
training will not change the shape or
symmetry of your abs some of us we get
abs myself included they're slightly
misaligned in my case insanely
misaligned you say Fuck how do I get
them to line again so I have a look cool
like a model six-pack that ship is
fucking sailed for you and unless we
have in intense genomic medicine in the
next 10 to 15 years we're insane
reconstructive surgery your abs are just
going to look like they look except
leaner or not leaner bigger or not
bigger
lastly this is a really big one tied
into the first one of spot reduction
training your abs does not make your
waist any smaller and as a matter of
fact if you make your abs really
muscular it makes your waist bigger a
lot of power lifters have big waists
because they're putting a shitload of
strain on their abs and a lot of figure
girls for example who come from
gymnastics backgrounds have been doing
tons of ab and oblique training if that
they had to for gymnastics and a lot of
gymnastics was required that anyway when
they reduce their gymnastics move
involvement or stop training their
obliques entirely their waists actually
shrink because the muscles on the side
of your waist got smaller there's no
amount of training to those muscles to
make them bigger
that can make them smaller thus if you
want a smaller shapely or tinier little
waist training your abs has diddly dick
to do with that
it might pissed at you training ABS no
train away just understand what you're
getting and I'll tell you this this is
kind of a little mini tragedy first
world tragedy right now again connecting
to the ultraverse seeing what everyone's
thinking and feeling gym really you're
jacking off again
back to everyone else folks tons of
people right now are training their abs
for either spot reducing fat or for
making their waste smaller
and sometimes even to change the shape
and symmetry of their abs all the same
time and those three things just don't
fucking work so stop doing them because
you're probably not into doing shit that
doesn't work or works really poorly so
just imposing a calorie deficit and not
training your abs as much or hardly at
all is probably a much better way to go
for almost everyone that's just that's
just the reality of the matter now
if we do want to trade abs
what will AB training actually do for us
first thing is if you train your abs for
endurance like with planks and a bunch
of other stuff it will make your abs
more endurance you will have better AB
endurance why I don't know why you would
want more app endurance maybe you cramp
during sex or some shit like that but
anytime people are doing planks and
stuff like that in the gym they're just
working on isometric ad endurance
um most people do planks in the gym
because they just nominally understand
that that trains their abs somehow they
probably think it spot reduces fat and
it's something the personal trainer or
group fitness instructor told them to do
and they suffer through it and they get
a little endorphin high and they feel
like they've accomplished something
that's as deep as that thinking ever
goes people do not get ripped Abs from
doing fucking planks planks are cool for
their own shit and for getting in
general isometric AB endurance but not
much other than that second thing
training your abs especially in a
hypertrophic way which we'll talk about
lastly just a bit can make your abs
physically bigger that means they pop
out more at higher body fats and really
cool when they pop through close so if
you're into the following look you could
train your abs for a long time to get
them bigger when you put on your Under
Armor right some shit like that in the
gym or in a locker room or whatever the
fuck you wear that shit out from the
street maybe not you guys know that like
NFL like running back look where they
have the under armor on the combine and
they're just relaxed which you can see
their abs popping through their fucking
clothes
that looks sweet and that exactly what
everyone's into I don't know how many
girls are like oh my God his abs are
popping out maybe some like it maybe
some don't but at the end of the day if
you want that look yeah training your
abs for growth will get you that look
cool look it's not the same as like a
men's physique competitor uh where in a
shirt or in Under Armor you wouldn't be
able to tell that they have abs but when
they take them off they're like holy
fuck and their waist is really tiny it's
different because remember NFL folks
they don't have super tiny waist but
they have big popping ABS it's a
trade-off which one you want more right
so that's definitely a thing that you
can get from Ab training and lastly you
can make your abs a lot stronger if your
abs are a limiting factor in your
strength in some way like for Brazilian
Jiu Jitsu or MMA or something like
sitting up from guard if you have
stronger ABS you can do it faster and
more more forcefully than training abs
for strength is totally a thing that
works but remember having strong ABS is
not the same thing as having a ripped
midsection currently I don't have a rip
mid section it's fine I have abs and
some veins and if it's not exactly the
most ripped thing but it's a big fucking
midsection and it's strong as fuck but
nobody's shaking my hand for that shit
like if I had more of a physique
competitor waste more people would pay
attention to my abs but I don't and
there's nothing I can do through
training to get there that's all diet
and at some point also fucking genetics
so lastly if you're going to train your
abs how do you do it properly what's the
thing if you want bigger more exotic ABS
did you train them normally like you
train any other muscle group and this
must be one of the biggest myths and
misconceptions in the fitness industry
is people when they train ABS the delay
crunches where you hold your can even do
as far arms are getting too big this is
hard to do
literally biceps hitting forearms pretty
sweet right the the fucking hand behind
your ears crunches you do like three
sets of 50. like can you imagine doing
that in front of like Brad schoenfeld
top hypertrophy researcher and be like
hey it's three sets of 50 good for
growth you'd be like not really it's
like okay is it good for fat burning
he's like uh-uh okay
why am I doing this huh you should have
thought about that before you started
doing the shit but what I just described
is like 90 of the ab training that
occurs in the entire world
most people do their AB training
unresisted
if you wanted the biggest packs of all
time would you just do push-ups that's
nonsense but people who want their abs
developed highly they just do bodyweight
AB stuff that's fucking stupid how do
you train ABS what does that mean to
train normally normally means like any
other muscle group so for example you
choose exercises that are high stimulus
at a low level of fatigue they don't
bother your hips or your spine you can
get a good full range of motion out of
them it really burns the whole really
fun living fuck out of your abs it gets
them sore all that other stuff so first
second you know full range of motion for
sets of 5 to 30 reps percent standard
loading rate which means that after a
while you won't be able to use your body
anymore so you have to load it which
means you do reps in reserve three reps
in reserve then two reps in reserve then
one then zero then deload standard
muscle cycle progression
don't go to failure every time like
everyone seems to think it's important
with abs and you do load and rep
progressions so get on a really good
full range of motion ab machine and
start sets of 10 to 20 ad sets as you
recover better add load and add reps
over time and your abs will grow it's
like every other muscle again a lot of
people say oh I train my abs every day
or every time I train why do you train
your biceps or quads every time you
train that's fucking stupid you train a
muscle hard you rest for a while and
then you train it again you can
logically set up a program that trains
them every day that might not be the
answer on average generally we recommend
that you train every muscle between two
and four times per week so ABS fall into
two and four times a week that means
they're going to have a minimum
effective volume a maximum recoverable
volume all that stuff it's the same as
every other muscle group the problem is
almost nobody trains their abs the same
as everyone muscle group because AB
training is just full of so much myth
and bullshitery and dumbassery that it's
hard to get to the actually uh logically
to what it is that we're trying to do
and if we're trying to elicit
hypertrophy why wouldn't we do that the
same way we do with every other muscle
right
if you want a real good guidance on what
that other mean that stuff means
there's an AB hypertrophy guide just
type that in or type in central Hub
hypertrophy guide ABS RP into your
Google machine and then voila there's a
whole article about how to train ABS
periodization progression exercises rep
ranges all that stuff just like every
other muscle with its own little quirks
but fundamentally it's just growth
training it's something you're already
very familiar with doing so when someone
asks you how do you train ABS think
about how you train your side delts or
your biceps or your calves and like
that's damn near the same shit just the
exercises are different
number two if you want stronger ABS drum
roll
it's got the video guy can you do a drum
roll a sound for me here
train them for sets of three to six
repetitions with heavy loading what but
that's strength training your abs are
fucking muscle you train them for
strength you can train everything else
for strength well Jesus and six three to
six reps like really low for the ABS
uh-huh did you said you wanted strength
right you didn't say you wanted to
arbitrarily do sets of 10 to 20. all
right training for strength and training
for strength that's just how it works
now all of a sudden you might not be
interested in training your asterisk
that looks really painful but that's
just that's what we're talking about
third sport endurance if you want your
abs to be more endurance for sport I
would say try sport specific stuff first
Okay so
exercises that mimic your sport at least
to some extent are probably really good
for sport endurance stuff so for example
if you're training your abs for
endurance in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu you can
do some planks and stuff like that but
what you can also do is you say okay
where is my app endurance really giving
up well when I'm sort of crouched and
sitting in guard my shoulders are not
laying back because I don't just want to
get past I'm up with my hands like this
you're basically sitting on your butt
your feet are either on the ground your
feet are up you're only sitting on your
butt your shoulders are off the ground
you have to sit in this curled up
posture and at some point after two
minutes you're trying to prevent guard
passes you're like I can't do this my
abs are tired well guess what in your ab
training if you want to train for
endurance after all the rolling and
training has been done for the day or
some other day of the week take like
some kind of weight or put on a weight
vest or take on like some kind of
dumbbell put it right here curl up and
sit there for as long as you can for
like a typical role amount and then
increase the weight on the with the
dumbbell or increase the amount of time
you can sit in that crunch position even
pretend to move a little bit every now
and again and your ab insurance will
come up in a work specific way in that
position that you want it yes training
in different positions like plates Etc
will raise your general AB endurance but
you probably want a little bit more
specific AB endurance because that
actually replicates what you're doing in
the sport you don't want to replicate it
exactly but something more like that
right and then
lastly if you want to get your abs crisp
if you want to get them to show if you
want random women to come up to you in
the street and be like excuse me sir I
don't even mean to bother you I know
you're with your friends right now and
you're probably on to do very important
things but can I just take the time to
just squirt chocolate on your abs and
lick them off like a fucking pathetic
animal that I am because when I see a
man's abs like that I get weak in the
knees and I have to lick if you want
that sort of thing to happen to you
daily then calorie deficit oh and
calorie deficit calorie deficit calorie
deficit sign me out and see you guys
next time