a lot of folks who watch these types of
videos on our channel would be like it's
the studio that says look this is your
dealer this is he's going to tell you
what to take it's like the they almost
think of it as the Chinese government
approach frustrates me about a lot of
the comments
is folks I'm Dr Mike from Renaissance
puration this is Mr Don saladino he is a
super world famous celebrity
trainer weird intro I know I know we'll
get to it in a second
so we're going to have a little chat I'm
going to ask Don about what it's like to
be a celebrity trainer what some of the
upsides are what some of the downsides
are and especially for you folks tuning
in we're going to talk about what you
can get out of how celebrities approach
their training because um only a few of
us can be celebrities and well neither
of you me or you are so but we can only
look up at the greats like Harvey
Weinstein no wait wait is he technically
a celebrity oh my God in a sense she
still I don't know I think he's in jail
I I know he's in jail actually good he
just reminded me good all right low
already first question first question
have you ever had a personal interaction
with Mr Weinstein I'm kidding okay I
just you were G to answer that weren't
you but he was way more I think he was
way more attractive in his earlier years
right I don't think he was ever
attractive maybe maybe not yeah first
question um introduce yourself to our
audience tell us who you are where you
come from what your background is sure
uh Don saladino I um God I started in
the Fitness business in 1999 I opened a
couple of gyms in the city that revolved
around golf when you say the city please
be specific one city everyone I'm sorry
to break it it's New York City right New
York new exactly he's got a good New
York accent so uh yeah um opened um two
gyms in New York City the first one was
drive495 it was a golf Fitness training
facility it was a it was a great concept
we had it for 15 years our 15-year lease
expired May 31st of 2020 would you
believe that interesting interesting so
the timing worked out well I got into
the digital space in 2010 um got into
the app Business uh started that with um
Adrien Peterson dwade Wade and Ernie L's
built this MTV Cribs and app I mean it
toned it and then completely shit the
bed after a period of time that's a
totally other conversation but that's
when I learned a lot about engagement
the the celebrity trainer thing to be
honest like being called it's kind of a
joke like be because no no I'm I'm going
to be honest like here you develop this
business you you build up this education
and Practice What You Preach for 30
years of your life doing this as well as
anyone from a nutritional standpoint a
recovery standpoint I mean I'm 46 now
I'll be 47 next month and um this
becomes part of your life and then
suddenly you start working with a big
name in Holly the celebrity trainer
you're like okay this is going to pay
the bills okay yeah I'm gonna ask you
another
question how did that happen so you're
you're you're training golfers which AKA
means mostly rich people and Prett much
there's a difference between uh New York
Manhattan rich people and celebrities
and that difference is you would be
standing in an elevator with a celebrity
you know exactly who it was they have a
net worth of 30 million you stand in the
elevator a metet worth of someone 100
million in New York you have no idea
because they're just some like C about
to say most of the members like my
celebrities used to joke around and they
be like I'm the poorest person 100% yeah
like a couple of them like I trained Ray
Donovan for for for years and he said
that to me once and I was laughing
you're like y you're not wrong no he
wasn't because you know what we who do
we train I mean everyone from I a couple
I I I can't even talk about but the like
really wealthy ones that worth in the
billions uh the founder of Tommy HFI or
Calvin Klein himself and go on and on
like big big did you ever try to get
free clothes off Calvin K like no you
know he wasn't even like kidding yeah
this just like most people would say yes
he didn't even he sold the company he
had one of the most epic um exits ever
by the way I think he got paid something
like 50 or 60 million a year just for
the rights of his name to the day he
dies and then I think his daughter gets
I'm in the wrong business we totally
fucked up how did you get to how did you
uh get to celebrity how did it go it was
it was Hugh Jackman so Hugh Jackman was
training with who I do not Train by the
way he trains with a great coach I think
she's based in Texas um Hugh Jackman was
in my club working with a buddy of mine
who was a coach okay how did he get to
your Club how does my buddy calls me up
and he goes Hey listen I'm working with
Hugh Jackman at the time he wasn't that
big and he knew it was a private club
he's like would you mind if I came in
and worked with him I'm like not a
problem there was no social media there
was no nothing right so Hugh comes in
and we start you know bsing and he's
watching me train and this and that and
his trainer make a long story short ends
up his wife has gets pregnant with
triplets and they decide to leave the
city I think cost a living obviously
this city sucks for raising kids yeah
it's not it's interesting because
someone once told me who raised their
kids in the city it's the best gift you
can give your children and I'm like
probably not but some gifts suck though
to give like sending your kid to
military school is probably good for
them too but they're not going to love
it yeah but like culturally I get what
they're saying the thing I loved when my
kids were in school there up until they
were only six like every kid in class
was a different ethnicity they walk
places by themselves yeah it was just
like culturally it's like no one knows
black white gay it doesn't matter which
that's what I love about the city that's
really special but um yeah so he
basically comes to me and goes your my
buddy who was the trainer was moving and
um he asked to work with me and I said
great so I worked with them for a year
we got them ready for Wolverine in
Australia um it was just it was a fun
project there was no social media I
remember I was really the one thing I
did which I was still to this day Pat
myself on the back for was I wanted
nothing but just what's the goal like so
I remember him what else is there right
well people tied into social media
people tied into marketing he came to me
and he's like men's uh men's Vogue wants
to do something on us and I'm like no
whoa and he was like what what are you
talking about I'm like no I'm like this
is like dude we we got to work this is
you like fuck fuck like what do you
don't worry about he just wanted to get
the clients in shape period that was my
whole objective even to this day I've
never asked a client to do social
posting for me sure I've never been like
hey could you okay I do a I do I do an
exceptional job because it it requires
so much more than just training yes and
there's so many things we have to do
when they're on the road well I need a
PT in London where's my meal delivery
service or a chef um all right I'll be
over there I'll jump on a plane I'll be
in London in a day I'll ask you about
that in just yeah so like stuff like
that's interesting but that was my and
then I think because he saw that one he
went behind my back and did the men's
Vogue thing for us which was I
appreciate it well that's good you
fucking idiot thank God he did that yeah
but there was no call to action then so
it's like all right you know what think
about it you know the importance of this
like okay I could do press and it's like
I didn't have an app at the time yeah um
oh wow someone in in in Florida is
reading about the article they can't
come to Soho but it puts your name in
The Ether doesn't it so how Okay so
that's my next question how did it go
from j h Jackman to other people H just
opened the floodgates at that point I
mean there people say that so how does
that actually work like well I'm getting
phone calls and it's like hey it's
Scarlet Johansson like oh hey I know who
you are it's like and the next thing you
know you know you're meeting this one
that one Sandra Bullock's in there The
Rock's in there training it's just it's
just every week there wasn't a person
that um but my but my two show ponies
like the the two to this day that have
done more for me in business um would be
uh Blake ladley and Ryan Reynolds
they're my they're my they're my like
people and you got them kind of the same
way off that hug acman effect where yeah
it all kind of like I really owed him a
lot like a lot because once the door
open for him um like the floodgates open
and then people there was some point of
Separation there was some degree of
separation where it's like oh from him
I'm like oh oh Billy crup came from
where it's like talked okay so this is
actually a super important question we
have for you we do a lot of celebrity
workout reviews on the channel and a lot
of times folks in the comments and folks
dming will uh you know some of the
celebrities train super well they're
like oh this is awesome yeah but some of
them seem to be training or being
trained by folks that maybe have less
knowledge than we would have expected
and then come the I would call them
conspiracy theories or at least
suppositions about people have an
assumption in their heads about okay so
this celebrity is working for the
following studio and the studio is pays
for the film right the executive
producers Etc yeah and so the celebrity
to them is in a sense a piece of capital
Machinery uh like they're they're
something that makes them money by being
in movies right and I think a lot of
people assume like the studio aka Big
Hollywood they have a a list of trainers
or this network that they connect to and
they go hey Sandra Bullock you got to
get in shape you go with this person and
then so a lot of times we get the
comment of like hey like why don't they
have trained Sports scientists why don't
they have the best most prestigious
people why is it some random guy from La
that's training them totally I totally
agree with you what I always say is I I
don't know here I'm gonna gonna ask you
in a second but my hypothesis is that
almost all celebrity training occurs by
the celebrity themselves through Word of
Mouth like I'm Sandra Brock I find out
Hugh Jackman trains with you I hit you
up and I go can you train me there's no
Studio involvement there's not like a
harvey maybe maybe for some lower lower
tier celebrity coming on a major role
like so if you have like a new actor or
like a newish actor that's going into
the Deadpool movies and they're not in
the network right like okay maybe you'll
get like I've gotten calls from Marvel
in the past but like no offense to
Marvel like you're not speak to like an
upper executive over there you're
speaking to some lower tier like someone
who's new like oh we this is our budget
XYZ and they find out about you the same
way everyone else did three now what I
do is I surround a team so depending on
who I'm working with I have you know
anyone from your functional medicine
doctor which might be you know Dr
Gabrielle lion or Dr Dwayne Jackson who
you know prescripts guy Dwayne and
Gabrielle are fantastic you know I have
everything down to your um meal delivery
service your chefs your you have it down
to what does that mean Don that means
you that means I have to facilitate it
if they need it if they need it do you
tell them they need it or ask them if
they need it um it's really more my job
to assess their lifestyle and say do
they need it okay because it's not my
job to come in there and have someone
spend as much money as possible
definitely even though they have a
gazillion dollars well yeah I mean some
of them have more money than you think
or less money L money I know about that
right and we'll get to that in a in a
second but like if Ryan Reynolds has
coming to me and I've been working with
Ryan for 15 years and Ryan's just a
creature of habit he's got his food
nailed his supplementing is really
minimal stuff like basic you know Thorn
stuff creatine glutamine just Basics BCA
if needed if he needs it um on that
specific day not something that he
always needs um you know I don't have to
turn around and suddenly start having
get all this Blood paneling done and out
of nowhere where like a bigger deal out
of it than we need to now I always
suggest that I I want all my actors
getting blood work done at least once a
year okay yeah no just to keep them
upright I I want to know what's going on
we've had a lot of you know scary shit
that's happened in this world or you
know people dropping dead a buddy of
mine the other day about 10 years old of
me had a had a very minor heart attack
like he was getting chest pains and his
wife rushed him in he had a clogged you
know had to throw a stint at him so um
you know these things always scare you a
little bit so I think just for that
reason and that's less about body
composition for me that's like overall
health like all right man you've got a
strenuous few months ahead of you you're
going to be traveling you're going to be
away from your family you're going to be
in different time zones um several
different time zones and we need to make
sure that you're resilient one of my uh
mentors BR Chavez he once I was having a
conversation with him about the
trade-off of taking lots of steroids and
performance enhancers and how that
affects your health versus how that
affects your physique and he told me
something super brilliant he's like I
think you're thinking about this a
little bit wrong what I like to say is
health is the Bedrock on top of which we
build a good physique and if you don't
have good health you can just forget
about training hard in the gym and
eating well oh I think it's your
foundation sure now we were we were
chatting a little bit earlier the
steroid piece I probably know less than
my dog about it's just not tell us about
that yeah well it's just not my
expertise it's not something now I I've
always had good blood work done right
and it's always um when I say that I
mean you know my um my tea levels are
good hormonally I'm in a good place you
personally me personally so it's not
something that I'm not a doctor right
I'm not someone in in my opinion I don't
care how smart you are out there don't
play fake doctor like if it's something
that someone needs a performance Hing
substance or you're an expert in that
area
enologist someone who who has a right to
talk about this then yeah 100% um do
certain people need it do I do I think
when I'm 80 years old maybe I'm going to
need it like do I decide to finally jump
off that Natty train do I think I'm any
better or any diff any better than the
next person because I have been natural
no I'm just telling you like why would I
get on it based on my goals okay I don't
compete on stage I'm at you know my my
testosterone levels are 9:30 as a
recently that's actually really high so
real quick so you don't compete on stage
no but a lot of
celebrities how they look in a role
let's take Chris Hemsworth for Thor for
ex I mean it fucking matters right 100%
100% the typical interaction I know that
not just from your experience but
obviously you hobnob with a few other
celebrity trainers in the industry is it
more often the case that celebrities
come into a trainer such as yourself and
they go Hey listen like I think I need
some help or are they already like hey
this is what I'm gonna be doing or they
just don't talk about it how does that
play out as far as interaction is
concerned again not sorry because real
quick no this a great question the a lot
of folks who watch these types of videos
on our channel would be like it's the
studio that says look this is your
dealer this is he's GNA tell you what to
take it's like the they almost think of
it as the Chinese government I think
what frustrates me about a lot of the
comments is people immediately think
because someone's at a certain level
that they have to be taking something or
who was it the other day who's the uh
Jack Reacher guy uh Allan richon yeah
and and I'm not a controversial person
on on social media it's just not my
style but like I I don't want to say I
went at him but I I kind of I was
listening to an interview by him I don't
train him by the way well you're a New
Yorker so you're automatically more
confrontational than a Lage person I try
not to be but it's kind of in our blood
but he's commenting about why he's
taking something now I've got friends of
mine that'll turn around and they're
massive and twice as strong as I am and
I've heard people go to them like how'd
you get that strong and they're like
drugs and you're like sitting there like
oh my God thank you finally like fucking
own it yeah he jumped on an interview
and he's like you know like I just
trained so hard for the last nine months
that I just literally like drained
myself of all my testosterone I I
literally beat it out of me and he's
sitting there and I'm like that's what
frustrates me because we're immediately
first off have you done everything in
your power to do it naturally the answer
is no like I I I know because to do
everything in your power that's a lot a
full send right like is he is he
competing on stage no he's not like and
sometimes the actors I think go a little
overboard because lighting's amazing
makeup is amazing camera angles are
amazing um look at the movie 300 like
they were that was it was bullshit it it
was total bullshit but everyone's like
oh my God look at them like they would
not you could take the most in shaped
person in that movie and put him in a
natural physique competition he would
finish dead last and he would he'd be
laughed off stage so like I think
standard so when you're seeing Hugh
Jackman deadlift 450 which for an actor
is phenomenal very good for an act very
good for an actor and like you could
probably do that 30 times i' I've done
four I've done four uh I did 430 for
like close to 20 and I'm a string bean
so like and I'm not I don't consider
myself strong to the level of like my
powerlifting friends who like compete in
the K or like Matt winning who's a good
buddy of mine like kind of a strong dude
right there right a little bit he's a
little bit strong so like I I think also
it becomes this scapegoat for most
people and that frustrates me if someone
could just turn around and be like you
know what no like I'm trying to optimize
body composition and I'm working with
the best doctors and we're monitoring
our Bloods and we're going into this
with a really methodical way of approach
all this then I'm like okay own it man
like great like own it but don't be the
guy putting yourself on the cover not at
least admitting to it when you're asked
that question that to me I don't respect
because you're GNA have some 14-year-old
kid who's sitting here looking at that
and they're going to oh it's drug free
so do you think it's tough for some You
can disagree with me all you want on
that it's my op I'm not here to a lot of
opinions I just want to know from the
master my opinion my opinion so uh God
such a New Yorker thing it's fucking my
opinion fuck you say F I didn't say F
but you were thinking I'm trying to cut
that down it's lent sorry my so um a lot
of folks would say well look like how
are they supposed to admit it if two
things one it's illegal yeah and two
wouldn't news media and Hollywood
Studios want to distance themselves from
someone that admits to using it you know
I don't know nowadays think the answer
is no because all these you know hormone
uh replacement therapy facilities now
now like everyone's justifying like now
it's okay yeah now it's okay so like my
thing is like okay like just just take
ownership on it like sure say what Allan
whatever say Richardson said and make up
the bullshits you know answer of like my
tea was so low because I'm just so I
trained so hard so so he's saying that
he like was not enhanced or had to be
enhanced he had to he was saying he had
to be enhanced sure sure okay
um all right there's so many I mean are
we looking at all those lifestyle
components like when my when I took my
testosterone Dr Gabriel Lon happy you
know I share all my all my labs but um I
was at 682 years ago and I got to 930
everyone's like how'd you do it and I'm
like honestly like it's probably 15
different things like first off I don't
I I got away from the brick and mortar
in New York city so I limit increasing
stress is a huge way to increase your
test that's that's number one right so
like I eliminate 6 hours of commuting
every day to 60t get the fuck out no I'm
sorry 3 hours three hours three hours
that still sucks three hour 3 hours a
day of community hour and a half there
and back hour and a half there hour and
a half back but um I was doing that five
six days a week so okay big that's a
that's a big deal you were driving um I
had a car service certain days thank
fucking god or I would take the train so
um that's oh the train holy shit my work
hours were insane um suddenly quality of
sleep improved uh became a little bit
more I like to use the word dynamic my
nutrition really started paying much
more attention to micro rather than just
macro which is your typical actually
trying to get healthy yeah exactly um
and then like yeah all the bullshit
other things that I do the saunas the
plunges that's like such a speck and I
don't even know if it works I just feel
good from it and I do it so sure the the
sauna stuff and the plunges and all
stuff reduces stress and and tends to
increase your testosterone and make you
healthier but I think a lot of people
miss the fact that if you're eating
Twinkies all the fucking day there's not
a fucking plunge for you that's not
going to save you um right uh all right
next question for you what is the
typical and I know it's tough to say
typical but average or tell us a story
about what the average interaction is
like with timelines and goals for
celebrities like I know you have
celebrities that you worked in the past
that they're kind of always training
under you and always kind of give them
some guidance and maybe you put the
pressure on before a rle for a bit but
uh when people want to get in shape for
a movie let's say it's a movie that
require some physicality like the you
know Thor that whole look like you're
going to shirtless I don't work with
Thor by the way but just just
Ryan Reynolds in one of the 80 movies in
which he takes a shirt off and I start
muting the TV and getting the lube going
just kidding I'm already so wet I don't
need lbe for Ryan but in any case uh
yeah yeah so I'll take care of that um
so what is the timeline typically when
people reach out and have you ever been
in a situation in which uh celebrities
will reach out to you and be like hey I
got this thing in four weeks and you're
like good news bad news get the fuck out
right tell tell us about how that works
I I can't mention this this act very
well a-lister in Hollywood really good
physique on him too and he Dr Mike isra
exactly um so he said um I'm like how
much time do you have he's like this
movie I'm getting getting ready for he
explained to me the role he had some
tattoos on his body I said how much how
much time you you have and he said two
weeks what and I said oh wait actually
This was oh my God how ironic this was a
call from the production company which I
rarely get okay this happened to be a
call from the production company where
we're referring so and so we know you
did a great job with so and so um how
much time I have two weeks and I'm like
okay so um did you just hang up the
phone no I just said listen I do my best
I said I said listen I don't know let me
let me take a look at him I already knew
he had a good physique and he came into
my office okay so he wasn't totally out
no no not at all not at all and he's
like what do we do I'm like couple
things I'm like how are you with the
booze he's like you know a couple drinks
a week I'm like that's gone for the next
two gone I'm like gone can you imagine
if he was like well I can't stop Boo for
two weeks okay then here's an Alcoholics
Anonymous card and then I'm like um
nutrition I really it's going to be
almost impossible to figure out your
Macros in like the next few days eating
protein and that's yeah let's just so we
literally went exactly that and then I
said um I also I want you to get a tan
yeah no hey look that matters and we're
gonna we're going to keep our steps up
we're going to get you high intensity
card honestly we're going to mix in some
steady state more frequently just we're
going to do some saunas we're going to
try and get the water out of your body
and they were like we need bigger
shoulders we need bigger arms looking at
I'm looking at this guy and he brings it
up I'm like do me a favor shut the fuck
up I just told him and he just started
laughing I was like this is not like
whatever but the funniest thing was is
that I handed this person back um to the
production company and I called them and
I said this is what I said I was like we
worked really hard I said are you happy
and they're like Donnie's perfect thank
you wow and I was just like okay the two
week Miracle but it wasn't did we change
anything in two weeks we probably dried
them out a little bit sure um things
appear obviously why am I telling you
but things appear differently when you
actually when I get tighter I actually
look more symmetrical and I look a
little bit bigger so like I think they
and again you're dealing with novices
like they they don't know it's
rightfully so they just they want to
finish product on on screen yes H but my
goal is really Beyond aesthetic piece of
the aesthetic piece of it like my goal
whether someone's coming to me with the
aesthetic piece like this is the goal
aesthetically my number one goal is
always resiliency because what most of
the actors don't realize it's like oh
okay like you're going to be doing
stunts or you're going to be now
training with a sword for 3 hours a day
or doing gymnastics training for three
hours a day and then you're expecting to
come in here and train for an hour hour
and a half you're just G to cook them
that way yeah and it's like oh oh and
then you're reading scripts and then
you're starting to do prep and then
you're trying to maintain training while
you're shooting like and this is on set
and at fucking Antarctica or some shit
like that right or or like oh guess what
uh so and so got sick or this camera
broke down or there was a call time at 7
and and so and so the diva didn't show
up till 9 and now you're supposed to get
off at 8 and you're not getting off till
10: and it's just like these that's the
that's the challenge with working a lot
of these actors oh and you're doing it
away from your family and you're in a
six-h hour time zone change living in a
trailer or some shit like that yeah and
that's where things get challenging like
I a lot of the strength coaches and I
have a right to talk about this because
I am a strength coach but um they'd be
like oh it's harder to train athletes
I'm like it's really not and they're
like all pissed off's a big structure
for athletes there's a big structure for
athletes but they're also they've been
exceptional at their crap and they used
to all of it you're bringing Sebastian
Stan now and you're like oh we have to
teach you sword fighting now for the
next two months and he's literally
sitting there like he's got my shoulders
hurt you're like yeah he's like okay and
he's trying to like sit here in bench
and you're like wait a second maybe we
need to make a different decision here
maybe we got to de lo a little bit maybe
we got to go to machines well her
machines aren't good trust me like mach
are great exactly machines are great
like you know we were talking downstairs
about not loading the the the spine like
sometimes there's times to load and
there's time and they're traveling I'm
like no loing the spine around travel is
real tough you sit on a plane for 19
fucking hours you go do high bar squats
later that day in your hotel and you're
like oh I felt something weird that's
it exactly but yeah that's that's where
it's different sure the typical timeline
for getting at um your clients your
celebrity clients in shape for these
physical roles typical timeline I would
say about three months that's decent
yeah I'd say about three months now I've
had Jackman I had N9 months for which
was beautiful because I literally had
holy CRA yeah I mean we were literally
like nine months of what like nine
months of corresponding with someone is
a little bit different than nine months
of like he's five days a week fucking
grinding what was it nine months of one
that it was really it was nine months of
pulling him back a bit at times because
when he came in his whole his whole he's
very hard worker so when he came into to
me he's like two days and I'm like
whoa when are the Olympics yeah like
chill out like let's let's just let's
see how your body's responding and now
may I add this was 16 17 years ago so
I'm a different coach then than I am now
so there's things that you pay attention
to differently now that you may not have
been thinking about what tell us tell us
a little um I think intensity probably
was a little bit higher I think if I had
that period of time and I knew he was in
a set place I did map it out but I
definitely would have like now like we
pay I mean was were you paying attention
to RP 17 years ago like I wasn't like
going you're just going like it's just
I'm not ashamed to admit that so I think
um paying attention to RP like
understanding maybe there needs to be D
Lo periods um how often am I going to
change the exercise selection maybe in
the past there was a little bit too much
variability at times you know body all
this bullshit uh but there's there's
things now that you that you learn and
you understand and you also got to look
at the person you're working with and
you got to make good decisions based off
of their needs like just because you
know I'm a big conventional deadlift guy
doesn't mean I'm going to have Reynolds
do it like no Ryan we have Ryan trapar
he's got a little taller than me and
he's he's he sets up for success in that
position and we could put our foot on
the gas a little bit more in a safe in a
safe way I'm not getting Ryan ready for
the stage I'm not getting him ready for
a powerlifting meet the juice ain't
worth the squeeze right the idea is for
him to take the shirt off and look
amazing and for him to be resilient yes
and there are many ways to do that that
don't break a person into fucking pieces
never load dysfunction in my opinion
just like the biggest tragedy I think in
in Fitness is you just see people like
well I see him doing it so I'm going to
do this oh yeah monkey see monkey do um
Ryan Reynolds yeah Hugh Jackman these
were guys that seemed to come to you and
there were 99 questions about what to do
with them but their dedication was not
one of those questions Wow have you ever
no names obviously sure unless you're
willing to really take the New York card
out and just fuing har he fucking animal
who not who sorry have there been
instances and tell us about them where
it's obvious to you really quick working
with someone that the limiting factor is
going to be like their degree of
compliance yeah and how do you as a
coach bridge that Gap with them because
if you have a regular person client even
just like a rich ass CEO and I've
trained a few of those folks myself in
the day you can real talk them because
usually they don't have a big ego about
shit they're not important in the sense
of they're famous so like listen Frank
you want to be able to fucking swing the
fucking Golf Club next year you got to
fucking make it two days a week and this
shit's just not happening you know what
you're right with maybe some more
pradish celebrities have you ever had
that situation where they're like I want
to get in this shape and I have 12 weeks
and they're not making sessions or
they're not trying hard or they fuck up
their diet I'll ask you a diet question
separately after this but how do you
have you dealt with non-comp oh yeah
sure how how do you how do you deal with
it probably uh less over my last 15
years because remember I became an
authority in this area you know when I
was whatever the math is now 30 years
old so you know I'm 46 to be 47 soon so
you know people would come in
immediately like oh you got these people
ready and there's this trust but yeah
I've I've had a cou I had an actor come
to me pretty well-known guy now I
wouldn't say
A-list like that B+ almost there would
people be able to recognize this
personal on the street yeah damn okay
100% so um he came to me and he was a
little down one day and I said what's up
he's like you know I saw a picture of
Hemsworth and you know I was like okay
and did you at least jack off yeah
exactly right but I'm like all right
well what's up he's like you know I I
feel like my progress is not like I'm
not there and I'm like let me ask you a
question how long you been
training and he goes a year I go so you
Waits one year and I knew the answer
this obviously how long do you think
Chris has been training I'm like he's
probably close to my age so he's
probably maybe a few years less than me
I'm like but this guy is really
dedicated his life to Fitness whether
you think his training is good or not
good there's some things in there that
are decent there's some things that
you're going to look at and be like this
hands down I've seen them work you've
seen work sure but the dedication over
years beats any of that but and but
that's the thing that you start looking
at you start looking at like what is the
best right and you look at some pretty
Ronnie Coleman like the greatest
bodybuilder we've ever seen like
aesthetically on stage like would you
would you argue that aesthetically I
think it's absolutely true that he's not
remotely one of the best bodybuilders
but as far as dominating his era there
is no comparison Ronnie for several
years as soon as he walked on stage at
the Olympia it was already over almost
never seen and that's I mean body and
that's not that wasn't a fair way to be
put it because bodybuilding there's so
much more with posing and yes and and I
being a fucking dick no that's fine I
knew I was going to get at least one of
those I knew I was going to get at least
one of those F but um when you look at
Ronnie's training it's like the guy did
a lot that was right and he did maybe
things that you'll say were wrong right
I think that's a really fair thing to
say like arguably one of the most jacked
ripped physiques ever in the open class
maybe that's the way that I should have
put that's exactly cor so but what made
Ronnie great like now if Ronnie's
training like you which I'm a big
proponent of like I I I I Dr Mike is is
phenomenal but like if Ronnie now is
starting to pay a little bit more
attention to you know positioning and
actual Tempo and he's working like this
is he better or is he worse like you
hope that the answer is through science
and what you studied is he's better now
what I do believe is maybe he's not in a
wheelchair right now maybe but does he
win at the level he won at if he
suddenly changes his train like do we
really know like I'd like to believe the
answer would be yes but maybe it's not
maybe he had to be under that that that
level of load right that maybe he just
needed that type of tension created but
with that there's a cost of doing
business so you know that's um you know
that's something that I look at a lot
when bringing someone in there I after
my screening after my movement screening
and after you do movement screening 100%
so what are you looking for so I'm going
through a basic FMS and I'm actually
incorporating some things from the
Titleist performance Institute even
though they're not rotational athletes
there's just things from a joint by
joint approach I want to look at so I
will look at a basic FMS and if there's
any red flags I have a medical team Dr
Charlie wro Dr Kyle balls or that I
would call in the room and be guys you
gotta get out here like I got I got a
red flag and I wouldn't say that in
front of the client like that but you're
gonna die you're gonna die like you you
move terrible you have you have you have
no hope right because their goal right
now is just to get screen ready my goal
is like okay I'm gonna get your screen
ready but I got have to make sure that
you know when you're riding around in
Bulgaria on a horse which by the way
Dave Harbor when I trained him for
Hellboy
um he had to wear a prosthetic suit so
everyone's like what is the like that
was an interesting case not to jump
around but he had to get into a
prosthetic suit and people were like
well what's the big deal about training
I'm like the guy can't pick up a 24
kilogram kattle Bell without his back
hurting
him legitimately could not do a was a
medical issue so I call him my medical
and he's like Charlie's like this is a
training equals rehab thing like go
through our basic protocols and we
within nine weeks we I have a video of
him pulling close to 400 lbs off the
floor wow it wasn't a 1 RM he probably
was at 85 90% and he's like let's go
more I'm like you're done and he's like
wa wa I'm like you're not a power to do
match like you're on a plane tomorrow
we're we're done but my whole goal with
him was resiliency and to make sure he
didn't lose too much weight because he
came in at 250 pounds they're doing uh
suit checks on him like three four five
weeks in and they're like he's losing
too much weight we're going to pull the
training budget We're not gonna we're
going to he's 249 PBS his body
compositions just changes he's like what
do I do I'm like go eat ice cream every
night I swear God like just just do
something to pull some water in I wish
had yeah me it was basically like like
he was I didn't want him to like
complete crap throughout the day because
then we know what ends up happening
there so Health not only just Health but
like you hear from these young guys like
oh I'm getting my calories or I'm eating
enough I'm eating a lot and I'm like no
you're not you're eating one big meal
you're getting pancakes bacon eggs
you're so filled up you can't eat for
another six hours and then you're
missing those opportunities throughout
the day to consume nutrition on a macro
and micro level so um he was compliant
very very so the other the other guy
that I jumped off I I scatter a lot no
no that's okay so he the other guy he
was basically a little frustrated that
he couldn't get the Chris hemworth
results it was like a year so I I turned
to him and I was like I want to be an
actor he's like you do I'm like no I'm
like I don't want to be an actor I want
to be an actor and he's just looking at
me I'm like and I'm gonna go take acting
courses for one fucking year yeah should
be you've been doing this how long he's
like 20 I'm like okay one year oh I
can't get it I'm like stop throwing a
temperat so I know how to talk to him
there's certain clients of mine that I
will get in their face and be like grow
the fuck up and there's other people
that we have to it's small wins I'm
working with a guy right now pro bono
don't take a sent from him he was 525
pounds last year uh two two years ago
and he couldn't walk four to 600 steps a
day he's at about 406 now and people
well that's two years yeah it's a long
time but his body composition's
completely changed and he's walking now
you can look at his board up there six
7,000 steps a day build that type of
resiliency impressive I had a woman I
worked with who was close to 900 lb
that's now down around 360 how long did
that take you I'm like uh six seven
years yeah like and they're like well
what about biggest well that's why
Biggest Loser they put the weight back
on but people most all of them but this
is things take time so I the training
the celebrity angle has always been
somewhat of a challenge because I hate
like you have small Windows of time I
understand if you're preparing as a
bodybuilder and you have to get ready
for stage but believe I'm in like long
not really a small window that's 24
weeks or something much different I wish
I had 24 weeks did you ever have to Real
Talk someone that is a um they have a
role coming up they said they wanted to
be in really good shape but they're not
hitting the nutrition they're skipping
sessions yeah do because they're famous
celebrity people do you kind of like EAS
go easy on them and throw some hints or
are you ever like listen Wanda you need
to wake up to the fact that we're not
going to get you in the kind of shape
you want to be if you keep yeah and
that's basically the exact conversation
yeah it's just like hey man listen it's
um you want to do X and we have a
certain amount of time that's going to
require you to do why let me show you
something these are my meals this is my
training schedule this is how many days
a week I do it let me show you this
woman here who you're aspiring to be
this is what they do okay this is now
sometimes we can take a minimalistic
approach so I'm not going to lie it's
for minimalistic results yeah but like
if you have a woman coming in you
already and she already has a good
physique and she's like I got to get in
shape for this role I have 16 weeks I
just need stronger arms I'm going to be
in a tank top you're looking at her
already you're like okay she's probably
at 177% body fat already she's in a
really good place um I think let me hear
about your eating you know what I um you
know um I eat three times a day I focus
on getting protein I have a little bit
dessert every night um I like to have a
couple glasses of wine a week like all
right man like what do we really have to
do here maybe four weeks out I'm like
kill the wine the wi yeah and like
suddenly just through training you're
15% body F exactly but but that's why
it's not always you know if you have
someone coming into you that's like
completely scared shitless about this
and they're like I need to get better
shape but and you're seeing that all
right let's just add a minimalistic this
minimalistic approach to their lifestyle
and see what changes and sometimes you
get a good result off of it without
making them miserable and for me that's
like
fantastic have you ever fired us
celebrity
client and by fired I mean you're just
like hey look this this is not working
out after multiple attempts not not a
celebrity client I have fired um I don't
like using the word fired but I you know
what I mean but I but I have ceased to
interact with professionally I have
professionally cut it off fired them
right uh yeah because it's just like
it's to a point where like I don't mind
playing therapist at times and I don't
mind you know I'm a very good person to
talk to which is why you know um I've
got a lot of in my online community and
I'm I'm very cool see that but um I have
zero women in my life they don't want to
look like you my wife she tolerates me
she's she she's funny it takes a lot of
money every month to get Gucci bags
she's very funny by Gucci is she really
she's really fun see she probably likes
you better than she likes me doubt that
um so you you've ceased working with
people because they're so non-compliant
that you're yeah it just it gets to a
point where I'm like you're unhappy like
this is not like you don't need you
don't need me you need like a therapist
and you need to and you need to divorce
your husband and you need to just and I
don't say it that way for me to say it's
for your L we're not miracle workers
here I don't care how good of a coach
you are and there is a difference
between a good trainer and a good coach
in my opinion but like having being a
good coach is someone that knows what
tool to go grab out of the toolbox and
sometimes if it's not in your toolbox
you direct people elsewhere basically
Psychiatry is not in my fucking tool
yeah I mean that definitely but I'll
people come into to me initially and
they'll be like I hate I hate any
barbell work work or or like I will not
put a bar on my back or I hate kettle
bell training and I'm like okay like I'm
not one of these people who are like oh
we have to do that you start with what
they can and watch I start with what
they can and then the M I'll never
forget this is actually kind of a
nightmare this is um probably when I
opened my club in 2005 2006 I had a guy
come to me and he wanted to work with a
suspension trainer but he was calling it
a TRX so he's like I want to do these
TRX workouts and I'm sitting there at
the time I'm like I couldn't be
selective on who I wanted this guy ended
up becoming one of my closest buddies
but I'm sitting there going oh my God
like he's like I want to do all workouts
with TRX and I'm like holy shit well go
fuck yourself do that exactly but I'm
like all right listen let's let's play a
game here so I was like okay so we bring
him into the sessions and we're mixing
you know his Dynamic warmup and we're
going through some TRX work and you know
I gave him a lot of what he wanted and
started sprinkling in a couple of other
things and then he turns to me and he
says all right man this was great but
like now what do you have for me like
let's get away from that thank God and
then the next you know he's swinging a
kettle bell and next thing you know he's
you know barbell front squatting and you
know he was he he started understanding
the importance of some variability and
um how his core is going to get a lot
stronger you know from front squatting
than from doing a TR it's always an odd
request to go tell a professional how to
do their job yeah uh like hey hey
mechanic fix my car but only use a
screwdriver like okay what um to your
job mostly has been yeah to coach people
in person write them programs oversee
their programmatic execution when
they're elsewhere
have you ever had a situation well sorry
one step back do you handle people's
nutrition all the time when they work
with you or some of the time or very
little of the time um a lot of the time
until I feel like there's something uh
that's involving a medical yes okay so
like if they have diabetes if they have
maybe some uh some gut issues going on
that I feel like they need to take a
deep dive I've got a group of functional
medicine doctors that you know obviously
nutrition backgrounds that we can now go
do a deep dive in but I believe in the
team approach I I did that at my club
because we worked with golfers so we'd
have the golf pro we'd have the physical
therapist we'd have the strength and
conditioning coach we'd have the
nutritionist and we all work together so
I I believe that as a team we're going
to be a lot stronger when we're doing
our thing like it'll be a little more
costly but you but mostly you're the
person of doing the nutrition for folks
it have you ever run into a scenario in
which they're really good about their
training but either the nutrition or the
physical itivity cardio or the sleep
just isn't there because a lot of times
when you train people like I used to be
a trainer in New York City for some time
they expect that the training is what's
going to transform their body yeah but
you and I both know that the training is
kind of the stimulus is the impetus but
the nutrition and Recovery really are
the fuel on that fire less less from the
celebrity less from the celebrity so
they're generally pretty good about and
that's why when you asked me it earlier
it was tough for me to answer it because
the celebrities are coming in like they
know their job jobs on the line they
know there's this level of
accountability so they're pretty fucking
serious they're fucking serious like
I've had I've had I've had one guy who
you know want wasn't getting ready for a
role was just getting in shape to get in
shape he's a very well uh well-known um
uh Hollywood star he would come in I'd
be like how you know how was he eating
last night he look at me he like you
know like went to the royalt down they
have these fucking little burgers and
you know how can you say no how do you
say no how many vodka he's like two and
I'm like all right dude listen like how
many vodka for he's like six and a half
like six eight um but like again wasn't
getting ready for everything but he was
feeling like shit from doing it so I had
to sit down with him have a conversation
be like listen if you're able to do this
once in a while and not feel like shit
that's one thing but the fact that
you're getting so upset that you're
doing this means that we need to address
this and it was a totally different
conversation
travel tell us a story about how you
manage your clients when they're
traveling a lot because it's so easy to
have a fucking setup have a fucking Chef
or have your meal service or have your
making your meals you're living in the
city you're train like you're living in
Hollywood for example you got your gym
you got your train everything's great
then you're filming and fucking Nepal
for four
months do they so first of all when you
are directing their training while
they're away on set yeah do you talk to
the production team about what equipment
they have available and ready or do you
tell them no I normally deal with I
normally deal with their assistants okay
and their and their assistants are I
pretty much like r one of Ryan's
right-hand people is my niece I got her
of the job she been with him for seven
years Blake so like now like when when
they go away like it's just like all
right we need this equipment here and
Life Fitness is sending stuff or perform
better sending stuff so they'll send
stuff to the shoot yeah but you can't
always send shit to Nepal right can you
no but we just sent um a full gym to
London for Ryan for Deadpool and now
we're auctioning it off Life Fitness
basically I worked out deal with Life
Fitness where they where they gave him I
want to say at least 60 GR in equipment
um full dumbbell rack up to hundreds is
this like in a tent somewhere like no
this is in the house he was he was
staying at he took a he took a bedroom
and he cleared it out so we put full Dum
Rock to 100 we put um belt squat glute
Drive leg extension leg curl laat pull
down Smith machine he likes the Smith
machine um uh dual adjustable pulley um
pretty much had that's really it that's
really it so but we had it all done in
De so I call Life Fitness and I was like
listen we're going to do this gym and
they're like would you be willing would
he be willing to auction it off and I
asked him he's like absolutely so they
gave him the gym for free in Deadpool
colors that's awesome and it was set up
in the bedroom which I like normally
doing like Life Fitness and Hammer has
been an incredible partner of mine
perform better has been an incredible
partner of M so when I work with someone
I'm typically able to get like a gym
Lent over there and then picked up or
like we're auctioning something off now
so yeah and do you need a big space no
you need a you need a bedroom you could
take a bedroom clear out all you know if
it's a big bedroom you can clear
everything out and you could probably
have to floor load's good enough or if
it's in the basement you will not have a
London all the building are from fucking
1560 there's all yeah there nothing's
going anywhere so yeah so I was just
over there with him in the before the
new year and it was um you know it's not
like I'm hanging out with him every
second but like we we're getting up at
4:45 to get him um yeah no he was
training every morning at like 4:30 5
o'clock and then going to do shooting
and stuff shooting all day till it would
get dark out and then you'd have an hour
and a half car ride back to the from the
set and by then it's 7:00 at night and
he's literally shower he's taking Zoom
calls for his businesses and not getting
a bed till 9: and rinse and repeat rinse
and repeat rinse and repeat for you know
3 four months I mean it's it's it's
brutal people don't understand and
you're away from your family like well I
hate my
family but no I'm sorry I said that
wrong my my family hates me so I was
about to correct I feel like I'm
relieving them right by but but you get
it so it's not like did he have a chef
no he didn't have a chef like um the
production company like um you know
Marvel's going to send a chef um in for
the entire crew but what they'll end up
doing is they'll packing him a bag and
he'll leave with a bag of food for like
that night in the next morning uh but
again robot like the meals like you open
up metal tins it's like a salmon it's
his vegetable it's a starch and so you
interact with the chef to give the
specific macros it's it's it's
completely like on o it's on overdrive
now it's just like it's it's done like
the assistant has everything she's like
any adjustments I'll look at it I'll be
lately she corresponds with the chef and
the chef makes meals it's done that's
awesome it's it's not it's not this like
oh there's a chef at the house preparing
food it rarely happens it's it's
normally you know Marvel's fcking the
bill for the company and then I think
all the the the big tier celebs are
leaving with their meals and that makes
a lot more sense it's kind of funny you
become a celebrity you're worth
gazillion dollars and you like eat food
out of a fucking bag at 7 p.m in an
apartment no one's there you're like
this is Fame huh it's just it's and I've
been very lucky I think the people I'm
working with they're they're really like
low maintenance like I don't work I
think the the ones that are here okay
they're the ones that are the easy ones
I think sometimes when you're dealing
with someone who's kind of getting entry
level and they want to be there yeah
it's that's what I found have you ever
had interactions with people that were
so high maintenance that you were like
no that's good people are also coming
into me and they're they're vulnerable
they're vulnerable what do you mean
they're just coming in and they're like
um listen most most people coming in and
work with you aren't in the shape you're
in most people coming in and work with
me you know aren't in the shape I'm in
and and and um you so they're like I'm
in your world yeah so it's been
different it's it's very helpful that
I'm on you know I've been on three
Muslim Fitness cover since 2018 and did
you know that I have all three of those
covers in front of me in my
masturbatorium I I you know I knew that
his wife told me that she puts him they
put him on the ceiling so that's how I
jack off laying down this guy's he's out
of control right notice how I'm just
like let me look at this I'll uh make
sure I have all their questions covered
really quick lot of celeb question today
I'm shocked I thought you were gonna you
know listen it's mey listen if it's mey
one last question for you please how big
is it no sorry that's for after the
camera's off um what can regular folks
learn from celebrity training done right
and celebrity training done wrong
because a lot of people will see the
celebrity training the go on musle and
fitness they'll see the little preview
of this is how the rock trained for that
the following role what do they get out
of it that's wor while what has your
exposure with celebrities been like this
is lessons you need to learn from these
people this is what they fucking do well
to get into yeah I I think the main the
the word is consistency they have I'm
not going to tell you that every one of
them's going to go in and train as hard
as him or or me um or whoever else right
I mean everyone but they are consistent
up they make it part of their job like
so when they have to get ready for a
role it's being scheduled as if it was a
shoot day yes and and the director
standing there and like you have to be
here at this time like that's the one
area that level of consistency I think
is remarkable um and you know I mean
listen the people that I work with that
nutritional piece of it that rest and
Recovery piece of it they really
understand this is what it takes and um
if you're a coach you better Practice
What You Preach because if you're
sitting here and you're skipping your
own workouts or you're all over the
place nutritionally uh guys I don't skip
workouts I don't like if I had to be
like I had trained 5 a.m this morning
because I had a I had a doctor's
appointment I had you coming in I've got
other things going on this afternoon
it's not happening later so I had a
train at 5: which meant I had to be up
at 4:30 and it's just if it's that or if
it's not doing it it's that if it's me
waking up at 4 it's that and I think
taking that mindset and don't worry like
the Readiness piece and I know the aura
and your HRV save all that shit because
plenty of people specific exercises and
stuff cuz people are like oh that's the
glued exercise that'll make me look like
Scarlet Johansson but it's actually like
no showing up 4 days a week and getting
on her meals and rest is what makes her
look exactly and and the level of
consistency she's been doing at that for
the last 10 to 15 years is what has been
doing it so like don't expect like
you're not going to feel like a million
bucks every day there's certain days
you're going to come in you're not going
to want to be there you're G to feel
like shit it's going to take your time
to get your body loose and you just got
to like I say marinate into it and I
think that's the biggest uh takeaway
from the celebrity coaches I from the
celebrities um training otherwise
they're no difference than anyone else
you're ever going to trade I love it Don
thank you so much for sitting down with
us this is great where I want to I want
more of you I want to hear more of your
voice I want to see more of your face
and potentially other body parts well
yes I'm here now but one cannot simply
just show up to your house so
technically speaking we'll publish your
address and say that just chill don't do
that let me at least give someone's
address I don't like there you
go that's awesome if we can't just come
to your house how do we get more of you
where do our followers Instagram donino
and donald.com um anyone ever has any
questions fired off to me even from a
business standpoint I mean doing a lot
of business courses now for coaches and
teaching a lot of online stuff which has
been uh really fulfilling for me because
it's you know coaches Focus so much on
you know getting their certifications
and becoming great at their craft and
they're sitting here training 40 50 60
hours a week and they're like I can't
make any more money and I can't scale
and how do I do that so I've been
helping a lot of people out with that I
love it thank you so much for huge
pleasure thank you folks see you next
time
thanks