hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's tip is to
manage your stress outside of training
what does that
mean psychological
stress affects training and how many
gains you get a lot because
physiological stress and psychological
stress all tap into the same recovery
mechanisms so the more psychological
stress you accumulate and the more
psychological stress you fail to make
mitigate and reduce the more it
interferes with your body's
physiological like muscles and bones and
cells and actual
things the more you reduce that ability
to recover and to grow and to improve
and to thus make
gains
so because psychological stress
psychological fatigue affects your gains
a considerable
amount anytime you anticipate a an
activity you're considering engaging in
or not engaging in in the future when
you're planning out what you're going to
be doing anytime you anticipate an
activity that's going to increase the
psychological stress you should be
asking yourself is it worth the
stress both for the rest of your life
because you do things for things that
are not just
hypertrophy and for actually the
training
process because you're putting in a lot
of work eating right you using the RP
hypertrophy app wink wink wink for your
training so your training is super
scientific you're going hard you're
trying to sleep right you can get a huge
boost to gains if you manage stress
properly so it's absolutely worth your
concern as
well what are some examples of the kind
of choices you can make in your life to
choose to take on stress or to not take
it on here's a few I got four examples
for you just to kind of paint a picture
and then you're going to use this
information hopefully to go make your
own better than not choices in the
future so first let's say your boss
wants you to stay late to finish some
work work that you weren't supposed to
be doing like hey Johnson didn't show up
today boom stack of papers something
like
that there are of course that's going to
cause some psychological fatigue and
some extra stress and it won't be ideal
for your gains but maybe it's worth it
for the career if you think that this is
the kind of job in which if you go
really hard and you do really well that
you will get promoted and rewarded and
things will be great yeah hell yes day
most of my academic career I was the
person staying super late one of the
people staying super late uh and getting
all the work done that I had to I was
always wanted to stay ahead I got ahead
I stayed ahead I got even further ahead
and then I had a great career and still
do so it's absolutely worth it to grind
100% when it's worth it but if there is
a recurring request for more of your
time and effort with no payoff and
seemingly no ability for payoff like
someone's basically just using you in a
not two-way street great way and you
were starting to become so skilled and
talented that you know you could get a
better job if you just went looked for
it then it's time to look for another
job or consider rearranging your
engagement with that current job and
saying hey guys listen I can do all this
work but can we talk about some pay
stuff can we talk about constraining my
time at work blah blah blah and
sometimes we be like oh oh my God yeah
you're our number one holy crap just
just name your price tell us what you
want like obviously you're not going to
pay you a trillion but like listen we
we're flexible please we didn't even
know that you were under stress and if
that conversation they're like yeah well
look it is what it is then you can start
looking for other work here's the thing
there's almost always another job and
almost always another better job you
just haven't seen yet or you've seen it
and you're like o should I pull the
trigger yes if something is continually
stressing you out and giving you a ton
of psychological fatigue for training
and for the rest of your life it could
be on the margin is not worth it for you
anymore and you just have to pour out if
it's worth it great because there's like
corporate lawyers that work all
day and night but they make like
$300,000 a year and it's like yeah yeah
that could be worth if you like money
hell yeah it's worth it but if you're
doing day and night work and you're boss
is a dick and everyone that the company
sucks and the company's going nowhere
and it's probably going to go bankrupt
then yeah you should maybe look for
another
job number two example there's an all
night party that's two hours away two
hours drive away and then you have to
drive back in the morning when
everyone's sober and can drive
again if there's a party 2 hours away
and I'm going to it there better be a
 free giveaway at that
party two hours you know how many
parties there are in two minutes away
from you in most
cases and if Leg Day is coming up if the
party is Friday night and Saturday's leg
day I will not see you there because
 that there's always fun to be had
in this world but you got to Str
strategize about which fun you're going
to have and which fun you're not going
to try to reach for because it screws up
the rest of your life too much because
it screws up training too much and
recovery but mostly because if you go
way out of your way to have fun it had
better be worth it for my personal
experience now I'm 38 years
old it often isn't now look sometimes it
is man I've gone out of my way at a
party and it was the time of my life or
one of them but a lot of times maybe
more times not you have these High Hopes
And you show up and you're like all
right this is cool and you get a heed or
a be figure out in your own time what
that
means and uh
you um it's fine but you're like we got
to drive two hours back really I could
have done this anywhere else anywhere
else so sometimes even though things
seem fun and they're like a good worth
uh investment think about how much
stress they're going to cause and how
much time time they're going to take
away and if that's going to screw your
training or your nutrition up or you
sleep a lot and or if it's just not
worth the time by itself you don't have
to say yes to everything fun full stop
another example is your grandma asks you
to help her move now you could be like
well actually Grandma I got a hard
workout coming up and can't do it but
you're not a piece of and your
grandma's cool as hell so you're going
to help her move it will be extra stress
but you're going to take it on the chin
because Grandma's dope and uh and you're
going to feel really good about that as
a human being and that's going to
continue to feel you for even longer
than any small respit in the stress
could so sometimes you will do stressful
things that do interfere with training
or unquote or in reality do somewhat but
uh they're absolutely worth it for their
own sake but if they're not worth it for
their own sake then you really have to
ask why the hell you're doing and
something that's almost never worth it
for its own sake is arguing with people
on the internet that is something I've
learned is it very stressful potentially
unless you're practicing the arguing to
convince principles which you can Google
I have a few videos on those it's
potentially very stressful with very
minimal or no payoff and why are you
doing it it's almost never worth
it give some thought to that and realize
that your psychological degree of stress
absolutely affects your physiological
responses it affects your gains it also
affects the rest of your life so anytime
you have some stress to take regular
work causes stress commuting causes
stress doing your bills and your taxes
grocery shopping can cause some stress
raising kids can cause stress
relationships can cause stress sometimes
you already have a bunch of built-in
stress so any extra stress you take on
after that has to be worth it in
relation to your training and your
recovery in your diet and it has to be
worth it in relation to how does it
boost the rest of your life and if it
fails on those metrics to meet the
minimum bar just don't do it find your
way out of it or find a way to minimize
it because it's cool to be a stress
accepting machine pin cushion for that
 but in the end you want to
architect your life and in such a way
that gives you the results that you're
looking for and sometimes stress is
really good at enhancing those results
and making you stronger and sometimes
it's a distraction and a drain away from
doing the things that will make you the
best of way you can
be folks that's all I got reminder we
got a members site members section on
the YouTube free videos all the time
free good God you you pay for them not
by video you you pay us per month a very
small amount of money and you got a ton
of videos uh at least one video every
week usually more and the bonus videos
that do not appear on the regular
YouTube and then we've got the team for
ROM Forum if you're interested in that
sort of thing and we also have the RP
hypertrophy app which is uh something
that you can use and the link is right
in the description and I think it's the
best program generator and uh the best
training app on the planet because I uh
had a you know my design and uh G wiiz
am I selfish anyway give us some thought
and uh see you guys next time