[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna finish out the deadlift miniseries
by covering four of the most common
deadlift errors and how to fix them now
if you didn't check out the other two
technique tutorials on the sumo and
conventional deadlift I'll have both of
those linked down in the description box
below a but let's get started with the
most common error on both deadlifts
which is lower back around now rounding
is a controversial area because in
almost every heavy deadlift there will
be some degree of spinal flexion or back
rounding and this is because it just
tends to be a biomechanically stronger
position for most trainees as dr. Brett
Contreras showed in his biomechanics
book rounded back does allow the hips to
get closer to the bar reducing the
torque requirement that the glutes and
hamstrings need to overcome however he
recommends that if you do around that
should be in the upper back only and
that lower back rounding should be kept
to a minimum
when pulling heavy loads so how do we
fix lower back rounded obviously you may
just be training too heavy let's first
consider lowering the weight that's
definitely not the only reason that
people round so let's consider three
other quite simple solutions first
stretch your hamstrings from a pure
technique perspective you want to make
sure that before you initiate the lift
you're pulling your hips into an
interior Lee tilted position you can
think of this as slightly popping your
butt out like in a bikini pose to pull
your lower back into a neutral spinal
position before you pull but you don't
want to exaggerate that now you may find
that you're simply not able to do this
and then still reach the bar because
your hamstrings are too tight so if
you're feeling a huge hamstring stretch
to the point of discomfort when you pull
your lower back into that neutral
position and I think you really do need
to work on your hamstring flexibility
and you can do this through a
combination of it dynamic stretching in
foam rolling before lifting and if
needed static stretching after lifting
and it also incorporates some moderate
rep stretch based movements like
Romanian deadlifts in your program it's
gonna help stretch the hamstrings out
under load second it's also important to
consider why your lower back
is rounding in the first place like we
already said it's probably because your
body is naturally gravitating to the
easier stronger position however this
comes at the expense of lifting safety
you know contrary to popular opinion
your lower back is most likely not
rounding because your lower back is too
weak that's much more likely that your
glutes are so weak that your lower back
is rounding to compensate reducing that
torque requirement at the hips and then
by extension the load that the glutes
need to handle so you should really work
on strengthening your glutes with hip
thrusts cable pull through x' and other
hip extension based movements so that
your lower back doesn't have to
compensate for the strength deficit and
third you'll want to use paused
deadlifts to reinforce isometric spinal
extension so you may actually start the
lift out in the right position but then
as you clear the floor you default to a
more rounded position that's the
solution here is to train this specific
problematic aspect of the movement
pattern by using paused deadlifts where
you're gonna pause for a one to two
second count as soon as the plates leave
the floor or you can pause it just below
the knees if you notice the rounding
happening later in the range of motion
now but either way the pause is gonna
force you to do a quick check on your
positioning and reinforce that proper
lifting position at the problematic time
points in the range of motion
now obviously you want to go lighter on
pause the deadlifts especially if you're
new to them I'm so I'd start with
something like fifty to sixty percent of
your one rep max four sets of four to
six reps and then build from there okay
so the second most common error is
having the hips shoot up too early now
the most common culprit here is that
you're simply setting up the lift ROM
many lifters have the temptation to set
up the deadlift with the hips very low
and then try to squat the weight up
which is a mistake and almost every time
is going to result in the hips
shooting up first leaving your lower
back to handle much of the load so the
fix here all comes back to the setup and
in my opinion if you do set up the lift
properly then your hips just won't shoot
up I'm so to set up our there than
thinking about sitting your hips down
you want to think about pushing your
hips back like you would in a stiff leg
deadlift and then once you can't get
them back any further without really
stretching your hamstrings allow your
knees to come slightly forward until
your shins
to touch the bar without moving it and
then you want to hold that relatively
higher hip position now when you
initiate the pull your hips shouldn't
rise up rather drive forward as the
chest Rises up and so the solution to
having the hips shoot up is to just
perfect your set up and initiate the
pull with the hips in a slightly higher
starting position okay so the next error
is not having your joints stacked again
this comes back to the set up so with
the sumo deadlift when viewed from the
front you should be able to draw a
perfectly straight vertical line from
your knees to your heels and if your
heels are outside your knees and your
stance is probably too wide or your
knees are caving in and the first
solution here is to simply narrow your
stance a bit however you may need to
also work on your hip mobility to keep
your knees out so before training you
can do some dynamic stretching and foam
rolling for your inner thigh muscles and
gluing and then after training you can
do some static stretching for the same
area also when viewed from the side of
the heels should be roughly stacked
below the knees
meaning your shins should be as close to
vertical as possible and this applies to
both the sumo and conventional deadlift
so in order to get your shins vertical
you may have to adjust the height of
your hips adjust your stance width and
make sure you're using a flat sold shoe
or even consider lifting barefoot
finally the last error we're gonna cover
is locking out the lift excessively this
is super common especially in male
lifters who seem to get so excited about
lifting the weight up that they just
want to keep going with it by leaning
too far back and hyper extending their
lower back so all you need to do to
finish out the lift is stand up with an
upright posture flexing your glutes to
lock out the hips and lifting your chest
up to lock oh the shoulders there's also
no need to squeeze your shoulder blades
together or shrug the weight up at the
top and this is just gonna waste your
energy and throw your lifting position
off I'm so it's totally fine to get
hyped up for a lift and use explosive
power throughout the concentric but once
you hit that lockout I think it's really
important to be able to maintain control
and not take the lift past its intended
range of motion okay so those are four
of the most common errors that I see on
the deadlift now there definitely are
many more but if you want to check out
the other two technique tutorial videos
that I did on the deadlift variations
that you should be able to prevent or
fix many of those issues and if you know
anyone who is struggling with some of
these technique problems feel free to
share this video with them or if you
have a social media platform anywhere
any share is always greatly appreciated
or you can just leave me a like on the
video I really appreciate that as well
subscribe to the channel so you don't
miss future technique Tuesday episodes
and I'll see you guys all here next
Tuesday