okay what is going on everyone so what
follows in this video is part two of my
interview with yarn tromelin I'm so for
any of you guys who maybe miss the first
part I will put a link up here in the
cards to it if you'd like to check that
out but very quickly yarn is a muscle
metabolism and protein researcher over
in the Netherlands and in part one we
focused on basically some fundamentals
and definitions to do with muscle
protein synthesis which is his area of
focus with his research and your drew up
the analogy of your muscle to a wall now
so you want to think about the muscle
protein synthesis side of the equation
as adding bricks to that wall and making
the wall bigger and you want to think
about protein and amino acids as the
building blocks of that wall and then
the muscle protein breakdown would be
like taking bricks off the wall and sort
of remoulding the wall and both of these
processes occur concurrently all the
time and the goal with your training and
your diet just to have the protein
synthesis side of the equation outweigh
the break down side that's ultimately
how you build muscle so in this part
we're gonna focus mostly on diet so
we're gonna answer questions like how
much protein should you eat in a day how
should you space that protein out
throughout the day is there a maximum
amount of protein that you can consume
or you can use to build muscle in a
single meal and then we do touch on some
more advanced stuff out of things to do
with leucine triggers and some anabolic
signaling stuff that I think you guys
will really enjoy and as always I will
have timestamps down there in the
description but without further ado I
hope you guys really enjoy part two of
my conversation with yarn trauma one so
guys we're back and join I'd like to
start with the stuff I think people are
really probably most interested in which
is how we can I guess maximize muscle
protein synthesis through dietary
intervention and I guess I'm sure the
main thing here is is protein intake and
we'll get into that but first I'd like
to just talk about carbs and fats and
what their role is in either stimulating
or inhibiting muscle protein synthesis
yeah so it's not that big to be honest
at least not directly
especially with the carbohydrates for a
long time the idea was carbohydrates
stimulate insulin release and insulin is
an anabolic hormone but that's not
really true insulin doesn't really
stimulate muscle protein synthesis it
only does during very artificial
conditions
I won't I won't really get it get into
it but it doesn't reflect normal meals
so with carbohydrate feedings insulin
doesn't stimulate muscle protein
synthesis insulin is a little bit and
the catabolic though it does inhibit
muscle protein breakdown in fact it's
the only thing that we know of that
inhibits muscle protein breakdown but
you only need a little bit of insulin to
have the maximum effect
so essentially anytime you eat any
amount of protein or any amount of
carbohydrates you have the maximum
inhibitory effect of muscle protein
breakdown and there's not much else you
can do now you don't need the carbs for
that just protein alone is enough
already to have enough insulin for that
fat has as far as we know not really a
direct effect a muscle protein synthesis
there's one study that suggests that it
might where they compared full fat milk
versus skim milk and indeed it appeared
that the full fat milk was slightly more
anabolic my best guess is that and as
board to do with the fat impacting the
digestion and absorption of the protein
then that it has any direct effects we
for example data study where we simply
added fat to a protein shake and we
found no effect on muscle protein
synthesis but to be fair it also might
depend on the type of fat you're eating
for example an oil tends to float on
water for example but it might float on
top of your stomach so it
it will enter your body much later than
the other nutrients where if you have
fat in a solid form that might slow down
your gastric emptying for example so
carbohydrates and fat if they have an
effect it's mostly indirect by slowing
down protein absorption so now you might
think that well if carbohydrates are fat
don't really matter theoretically all I
need to do is eat a little bit of
protein and I have Max and anabolism but
that's not true either because you do
need the calories from carbohydrate or
fat so even three days of a moderate
caloric deficit already reduces muscle
protein synthesis rates may be good to
mention so people often think that
muscle protein breakdown is elevated in
a caloric deficit but that's not true
it's a muscle protein synthesis that
goes down
so again supports the idea that most
protein synthesis determine whether or
not you're in a positive balance so you
do need to have sufficient energy for
maximal anabolism but it doesn't matter
whether you get it from the
carbohydrates or fat and you don't need
it on a per meal basis so as long as
your energy intake over a certain time
period is sufficient it doesn't really
matter so you don't necessarily need to
eat carbohydrates and fats in each
single meal because oh I need energy
with this meal a lot of studies are done
after an overnight fast and then only
protein is given and then still the
maximum muscle protein synthesis rates
are achieved and then adding a large
amount of carbohydrates on top of that
don't do anything but the shortest
period where we know that energy
deficiency runs into problems is three
days so if you are too long without
energy most protein synthesis rates will
be downward if you use something like
intermittent fasting it's not like oh
you had very low energy for most of the
day
that's not really an issue as long as
overall an energetic balance is okay
which of course makes perfect sense that
the body doesn't really want to build a
whole lot of muscles if you're starving
site no Darius that is definitely still
possible with proper training but it's
not going to be optimal right so yet
just two points there I guess with the
the carbs it's really popular in the
bodybuilding sphere to slam a bunch of
carbs after your workout so try to get
insulin levels high and that supposedly
is either anabolic which you say it's
not or if not then it at least limits
muscle protein breakdown but I think
like you're saying the level of insulin
increase that you need can be achieved
just through protein alone probably
would you say that's true so it's it's
not a wreckage that's clearly destined
and true right so you don't even need
any carbs at all as long as you just
have protein in the post-workout period
at some point you're good and you
certainly don't need these like super
fast digesting carbs sources on the
topic of fat I remember there was one
study published pretty recently
comparing whole eggs to just egg whites
and the whole eggs were more and found
to be to stimulate more muscle protein
synthesis do you think that sort of adds
to the body of evidence that maybe fats
do have some sort of additive effect
perhaps but there's a lot more
differences between those groups than
just the fat so I would say we did the
most clean study where we just added
some milk fat to protein so that in this
egg comparison and there's also other
nutrients for example cholesterol and
there is at least one study that
suggests that cholesterol can stimulate
muscle protein synthesis but it could
also be other dietary factors so then
you come in through the whole discussion
what's better protein shakes or real
food so the so to speak well to be fair
that that whole egg study was the first
one that really examined that question
so it's hard to give a clear answer that
but my guess would be it wasn't a fad
more likely it were other nutrients in
the whole ex but I'm pretty sure that
gets from Nick Birds lab that he'll
he'll follow up on that in the absence
of this data I would have guessed that
fat would inhibit muscle protein
synthesis rates just because it tends to
slow the rates of digestion so you'd see
like less of a I guess rapid spike in
amino acids which seems to be better for
promoting muscle protein synthesis so
from a mechanistic point of view it's
kind of hard to figure out why it would
have that effect I guess so I would
agree with you it doesn't seem like fat
should be really doing much there yeah I
I fully agree so as you mentioned the
speed of digestion seems to be one of
the main properties that predict the
anabolic response to protein so for
example whey protein is are rapidly
digestible protein and if you give that
to subjects after exercises of bolus
it's more anabolic than when you take
the exact same protein same amount but
then let people sip it in smaller
portions so sip 50 minutes sip and then
so you're given exactly the same protein
the only difference is now you mimic a
slowly digestible protein never hits the
plasma all at once and then the muscle
protein synthesis lower or for example
we have done studies where we hydrolyzed
protein and then it's essentially
predigested and that also increases the
muscle protein synthesis so in the
absence of other data a faster protein
seems to be better than now I would say
those are the two cleanest designs to
investigate the effect of speed but it's
clearly not the the only factor so the I
mean how acid composition of a protein
has influenced and yeah that whole egg
protein study suggested also there are
some other nutrients that might also
modulate the effect interesting yeah so
I want to get into all those factors
like speed of digestion distribution all
that stuff but first I just would like
to hear some of your commentary on
the idea that as long as you hit the
macros nothing else really matters too
much which is pretty common in our
industry so people will say you know as
long as your total daily protein intake
is of a sufficient amount which we can
talk about what that amount is how you
space that out or time that isn't it
doesn't really matter what do you think
about that I think that comes down to
the minimalist approach again I have
zero issues with that approach as long
as you're saying that I want to do the
20% that gives me 80% of the results if
you're suggesting that that is for sure
the best thing that a competitive
athlete should you then I think you're
missing the boat so I do think there's
other factors that might improve results
a little bit more whether or not that's
worth it's for the a that's up to the
individual but yeah I would agree that
overall yeah your macro nutrient
composition is probably going to give
you like 80% of the results but if all
you do is eat say collagen protein which
simply doesn't have all the amino
essential amino acids that's not gonna
be the same as a well as a diet with
high quality protein score that's a very
extreme example but it shows that the
macro yeah the matter if it fits your
macros approach is a good model that
forms the basis of everything it's just
not perfect right and whether or not the
incremental gains is worth it is up to
the individual right yeah collagen
protein is isn't there no leucine in
collagen or there's not in there right
as essentially essentially zero that
doesn't mean that collagen is useless
so for example key bars lab has recently
done a study where it suggests that
collagen supplementation might improve
yeah collagen synthesis so it might be
very efficient for tendons and stuff
like that
but it's not gonna be very beneficial
for the muscle right and in case anyone
doesn't know that collagen is the
protein you get in those like little
jello packets so you'll have like it'll
be like if you ate like 20 of them you'd
get 20 grams of protein but it's like
the worst probably quality protein you
can imagine and some supplement
companies will take advantage of this so
they'll take like say they'll call it
like a beef protein but it's actually
just collagen from like the connective
tissues of the cow I guess or whatever
they're pulling it from and it's just a
horrible protein to supplement weight
especially when you have like way but
people want to go with it because it
seems a little more hardcore I guess to
eat beef protein than milk protein but
it's just the most garbage protein
source you can have I think yeah again I
I well it's very little has been done I
think enough it can have specific
purposes right but I think you need like
a certain amount of high quality protein
for your muscle anabolism and then maybe
on top of that some then for other
tissues yeah for example but if you go
all in on the collagen you're gonna
definitely gonna have issues for muscle
mass yeah yeah yeah so let's cover the
main thing for so total daily protein
intake you'll often hear the
recommendation and I'll even give this
myself sometimes from curious to hear
your thoughts on it then you should just
aim for like 1 gram of protein per pound
of body weight which is a nice round
number people can latch onto it fairly
easily and it's probably safe in terms
of it's almost definitely enough what is
your recommendation that you make to
people for a total daily protein intake
yes so for that I would go with the
recent meta-analysis from its from stood
full of slabs so from Rob Martin and
they found that essentially at 1.6 grams
per kilogram body weight muscle mass
gains were optimized and then based on a
confidence interval which is pretty much
the statistically uncertainty they
recommend that you can go a little bit
higher just to make sure that for each
individual like maybe there's some
people we simply need more they
recommend
think it's 2.1 or maybe it is 2.2 grams
per kilogram per body weight which is
essentially that one gram per pound so
based on their meta-analysis essentially
the conclusion is essentially everyone
should optimize muscle mass gains with
that number the the one gram per pound
of body weight
now you can debate it a little bit for
example it's not necessarily optimal for
every population or under all
circumstances so the idea is the more
exercise you do and then I'm talking for
example whole body exercise versus only
lower body exercise that maybe then you
need a little bit more protein or maybe
in a caloric deficit you might need a
little bit more protein it's pretty well
established that there that all our
subjects need more protein than younger
subjects which I always think is funny
and that it's the young subjects who are
hitting the protein shakes all day well
it should be the elderly who hit the
protein shakes all day perhaps a bit
surprisingly women seem to respond more
or less the same as men you could
imagine that women are less sensitive to
protein and exercise because they're
smaller but it seems more their starting
point is smaller but they respond just
as well to protein and exercise as menu
and then you could also argue that it
depends on how much lean body mass you
have so let's savor Jagr guy of let's
say 200 pounds that that guy needs more
protein than someone who is a little bit
heavier I don't know how you say that
politically correct more about how
doesn't have I'm gosh we have no
political correctness yes so that the
amount of lean mass determines how much
protein you need on that specifically
there's only one study who looked at
that specifically but they found ya know
differences between a group with low
lean body mass or a high lean body mass
that's a bit surprising
counterintuitive I think in practice you
almost always tailor your protein intake
to to your body weight because you in
almost always tailor your caloric intake
to body weight so I did a study on
athletes of all kind they were all
competing on national level
all the way up to Olympic athletes and
he's a very strong correlation between
energy intake and protein intake so
bigger guys in practice will almost
always eat more protein and smaller guys
simply because they eat more so yeah if
I would summarize it that 1.6 gram per
kilogram body weight that seems to be a
very good average for everyone if you
want to play it safe against it comes
down to the individual what are your
goals if you want to play it safe you
might go up to that 2.2 gram per
kilogram per per day if you're older you
probably want to go hit that 2.2 gram be
a little bit safer and go on the higher
end females the same and also in general
people with obesity also seem to respond
worse to protein so they might also need
a little bit more protein interesting
just so for people who are on the
imperial system you're basically
somewhere in the ballpark of like 0.7 on
the average end so like most people will
be fine with 0.7 grams per pound of
protein and at the upper end pretty much
everyone is good with one gram per pound
of protein some people so say maybe
elderly or obese perhaps people who are
doing like maybe more full body training
something like that maybe could benefit
from slightly more may be as high as
like 1.2 or something like that but
there doesn't really seem to be any need
to go higher you say that captures it
decently well yeah yeah yeah then I
would say some people suggest it's the
protein needs are increased during an
energy deficit that is not very clear
just horrible studies to do yeah but
what's definitely clear is
at 1.2 gram per kilogram body weight per
day that is insufficient so you
definitely need higher so again that 1.6
gram and also in an energy deficit is
the absolute minimum I would suggest
ideally a little bit higher right I
think it was interesting that you you
said that it doesn't seem to be as
dependent on lean body mass as a lot of
people seem to think even I thought this
because it's used every literally every
recommendation you see in the literature
is based on per pound of body weight or
per kilogram body weight but like you
said there was that one study that
showed that it didn't really seem to
depend on lean body mass which is very
counterintuitive why do you think that
might be the case and if it's true
should you just maybe make a blanket
protein recommendation so aim for X
grams of protein per day regardless of
your body weight and you should be good
yeah so again it's only one study but it
sends it's the only study it's hard to
ignore it and they simply found no no
difference in protein needs 15 yeah jack
guys are essentially smaller untrained
guys but the counter-argument is that in
those meta-analysis they expressed
protein needs per body weight and then
they find essentially a curve that has a
cut-off point so when you look at that
data it seems like at this cutoff point
something seems to happen so the
indirect evidence still supports per
body weight recommendations now if you
look more at the muscle protein
synthesis studies a lot of protein dose
response studies have been done where
essentially subjects were fed different
amounts of protein and then yeah the two
studies the best studies for young
athletes that have been done both found
that 20 grams of protein optimized
muscle protein synthesis over the
measurement period which was four hours
so then you would end up with
probably three meals during the day 20
grams of protein but then still you only
have 12 hours converts so then you
probably want some extra protein perhaps
later in the day before sleep but there
are various recommendations that just
look on you need this absolute amount of
protein per meal rather than expressed
per body weight yeah what what's better
we don't really know that also will
depend on whether or not meal frequency
matters which is another highly debated
subject and then also recently some
evidence suggests that maybe the forty
grams is better than 20 grams even
though earlier studies didn't show it
and that may depend on how much muscle
you train so if you do full body
exercise session maybe then the 40 gram
is better then it's one Engram but to be
fair even in the studies where 40 gram
wasn't statistically better than the 20
gram there was still a 10% increase in
muscle protein synthesis with 40 gram
compared to 20 it was just not
statistically significant so essentially
in all these studies the more protein
does better where 40 gram gives about 10
to 20 percent higher increase in muscle
protein synthesis so again is that worth
it up to the individual you certainly
don't need to hit 40 grams every meal in
order to build muscle mass we often say
20 grams pretty much the optimal amount
but again if you want to do everything
you can you probably want 40 grams in
each meal right right yeah I want to I
want to talk about distribution too but
on the point of total daily protein
intake I always find it a little bit
weird because it's in my opinion like as
a bodybuilder relatively easy to hit the
upper end of that range so given that
there is this like there seems to be
quite a bit of individual variability
you almost have nothing to lose by going
higher like you you even potentially
have something to gain so there's as I'm
sure you're aware some of this research
out of Jose Antonio's lab that have
given people as high as I think
three four grams per kilogram of body
weight protein per day which is really
really high and they've seen less fat
gain in the subjects eating the super
high protein intake so the case could be
made that you have nothing to lose you
might as well go for the higher end but
it seems like people writing the
literature always seem to be looking for
this low and for some reason but yeah as
I see it you since you have nothing to
lose you might and yet you potentially
have something to gain you should at
least you know try to get it up a little
bit higher yeah again I think it comes
down to perspective so are you a
minimalist or so many guys who just want
to do the minimal amount to get decent
results that's fine but don't say that
is now that that will produce maximal
gains so there's also a very nice
protein overfeeding study where subjects
were essentially locked into a metabolic
chamber so let's call it a prison cell
we have a few year like 50 meters from
here and then that way you can give all
the meals to the subjects so you don't
give them protein and say please eat
this you literally see exactly what you
give them and if they don't eat it you
also know what they don't eat and this
study was in untrained subjects but the
protein overfeeding even increased lean
body mass so yeah I think there's only
potential upside with going higher in
protein but then again the other people
say you don't need it waste of money I
yeah all comes down to perspective in my
opinion right this also seems to be
quite a bit of internal variability
whereas like some people in these
studies will basically maximize rates of
MPs with I don't know the bottom end of
that recommendation 1.7 or what-have-you
whereas other people will need a lot
more than that so it's like without
having that actual testing done on
yourself you'd be better off just going
with the higher end usually if you can
so that that's usually what I recommend
yeah agreed and also so for example I've
mentioned that older adults need more
than young adults but then in our
studies we see the same thing but less
extreme than the labs in Canada or in
the US and what we think that is the
case is that the Dutch elderly are
typically pretty healthy so they still
cycle a lot and we think that even small
things like the total daily amount of
steps that you take it's another form of
activity and we'll determine how much
protein you need so it's probably a big
difference between a student who is just
sitting all day versus even though he's
a 21 year old guy versus an athlete who
you know even when he's not in a gym is
still moving around right so yeah I
think there's there's I don't know if
it's truly genetic variation probably to
some extent it is but it's probably a
lot of environmental factors as well as
how much do you sleep how much do you
move around during the day so since you
don't know all these things the safe
thing is always eat a little bit more I
want to talk about protein quality a
little bit because we're saying like
okay let's just as a ballpark like one
gram per pound if you're gonna aim for
that is that of all high quality protein
do you include say plant sources of
protein in that how much can you get
away with in terms of plant sources or
grain sources or what have you
any of what is the role of protein
quality in this equation yeah so
generally we say that a high quality
protein is a protein that's high in the
essential amino acids and as a well
balanced spectrum of the essential amino
acids so for example collagen like you
mentioned it is an animal protein but as
no leucine roll it has very little of
most amino acids so from a muscle
building perspective that is a very low
quality
protein but in general the animal-based
proteins so all meats and most dairy all
dairy have high essential amino acid
content very well balanced out and then
the plant-based proteins they they have
a lower essential amino acid content and
they often lack one or more amino acids
or have very low amounts of it and then
you run into the problem of what we call
a limiting amino acid so if we go back
to the analogy of the wall let's say
this time we're building a house and I
have a lot of bricks I have a lot of
windows ok let's say I've I have the
windows and I have the bricks but I have
zero doors
I simply cannot build a functional house
anyone can walk in and steal my stuff
and it's gold so it's the same thing
with the essential amino acids you need
all of them otherwise you simply cannot
make useful proteins so if you have a
plant-based source that lacks one amino
acid or has very little that's the
limiting step in how much muscle you can
build with that protein so does that
mean you are screwed gonna say that I
that you're screwed as a as a vegan
lifter not necessarily you probably have
to do have to put in a little bit more
work or a little bit more attention so
we did a study where we showed that if
you just eat more of your plant based
protein source you can compensate right
so as long it has some of those amino
acids as long as you eat more at some
point you'll have enough of it of course
that is difficult because most at least
the the whole food sources of
plant-based protein
tend to have a lot of fiber as well so
you would just become sick by eating all
that plant-based nutrition or what you
can do is it hasn't been directly
studied but there's very strong
rationale for it it makes different
animal uhsorry different plant-based
sources so for example corn is very high
in leucine
but Lex not sure which one but I think
lysine likes lysine in an order
plant-based sources might be high on
lysine but are relatively low in leucine
and if you combine them all then you
have a pretty decent spectrum still the
total amount still will be a little bit
lower than with an eagle amount of
animal-based protein but maybe you only
need 10 20% more protein so mixing it is
a very good strategy and in general try
to eat a little bit more of it to
compensate so you're not screwed but
dust requires a little bit more effort
mm-hmm plant-based protein sources also
tend to be lower in leucine which is
what provides sort of the trigger for
activating mTOR and then all the rest of
the machinery required for a hypertrophy
so I guess it would make sense that if
you don't have quite enough Lucy in and
say like your regular 20 or 30 gram dose
that you would with say whey protein or
chicken or something then it might make
sense to just double up on it or do you
know a little bit more than you you
normally would to get that leucine
higher and then combine the different
sources to make sure you've got a full
spectrum of the the building blocks like
you said do you think there's any role
for supplemental leucine in terms of
vegan lifters yeah it makes a lot of
sense for vegan lifters so leucine is
like you mentioned the amino acid that's
most potent at stimulating muscle
protein synthesis so the people who take
BCAA supplements are probably like yay
but then like you mentioned you need the
other amino acids so the analogy that
sometimes used is that leucine is like
caffeine it tells the construction
workers to start building that wall but
if you don't have bricks the other
essential amino acids you still cannot
build that wall but the problem with
most plan based proteins is that they
lack leucine or have relatively low
levels of leucine so adding supplemental
leucine seems like a very effective
strategy for them
the evidence that adding leucine on top
of a meal that already is pretty high in
leucine is yeah minimal at best
I've have an article out somewhere that
theoretically it could be possible but
then that is like the super super
marginal gains but especially when
protein quality is suboptimal losing
supplementation is a very effective
source also so my colleagues love
leucine who do more research in all the
subjects because they typically have
much less appetite and then it's pretty
clear that lle need at least 40 grams of
protein in a meal to optimize muscle
protein synthesis but that's just not
convenient for them they might hit that
with their dinner but definitely not at
breakfast or lunch so leucine
supplementation would also be a
convenient for older subjects for
example right let's talk about amounts
here so like how much leucine do you
need to have in a meal in order to not
see more increases in MPs so like 2 to
max it out so to speak yeah so perhaps
you have heard of the leucine threshold
yeah
strongly dislike that concept so the
idea is that you need a certain amount
of leucine in a meal to stimulate muscle
protein synthesis and then based on that
idea the well it's one of the theories
that supports certain meal frequencies
like oh if you eat small deals the whole
day you never hit the leucine threshold
so it's better to cluster your protein
together to hit that leucine threshold
but there's just no evidence for that
so I mentioned those dose-response
studies earlier where they just give
different amounts of protein and see how
high muscle protein synthesis rates are
and the smallest dose that is tested is
5 grams of protein and that already
significantly stimulates muscle protein
synthesis and that is about half a gram
of leucine so essentially anytime you
eat
some protein it already stimulates
muscle protein synthesis it's not
optimal so about 20 grams of protein
gifts like a near maximal stimulation of
muscle protein synthesis for about 4 to
5 hours that's about 10 grams of
essential amino acids so if it's
plant-based protein you're more looking
at 30 grams of protein and it's about 3
grams of leucine 3 times yeah yeah it
really depends on on your protein source
but again 3 grams leucine on its own
it's not gonna do anything
leucine or like your BCA supplements not
gonna do a whole lot you just don't you
simply need the other amino acids right
a lot of people especially see these
blog articles online about leucine well
picture it like an on/off switch so if
you don't hit 3 grams it's off as soon
as you hit 3 grams it's on and then
you're off to the races but I think a
better way to think about it is like a
turn dial so you can you know even with
like you said half a gram of leucine
just 10 grams of protein or 5 grams of
protein whatever it is you can get some
increase in muscle protein synthesis and
you can crank that turn dial up as you
increase the dose to a certain point
past which it doesn't really turn up
anymore from what I've seen that point
where it doesn't really turn up anymore
is somewhere around like 20 to 30 grams
even though you just said earlier that
there was that one study that showed 40
grams was slightly better than 20 but
only by about 10 percent so it doesn't
scale perfectly well exactly hi yeah so
that the first 20 grams is pretty much a
linear increase after that there's a
very very sharp decline in incremental
gains right and then I guess that does
depend on age too because it seems like
people who are maybe more
anabolic leave resistant may need more
to get to that initial inflection point
or whatever you want to call it so a
couple other concepts around this I
guess we should just like ease into the
whole idea of protein distribution so
we've kind of talked about total daily
protein intake protein quality potential
ways around that how would you recommend
people spaced out their protein across
the day is it okay if you chunk it
in one meal and just have 120 grams in
one meal or should you try to space that
out more evenly yeah so meal frequency
is highly debated again horrible studies
to do because you're going to ask people
please eat at these moments which just
sucks and unless you would lock them up
in like these metabolic chambers you
don't really know what they're doing
anyway so unfortunately way too little
has been done and it also goes down
again to the perspective thing I think
that total protein intake is definitely
the most important thing but seems
likely that with a little bit better
distribution you might increase gains a
little bit more so there are there's
various lines of animals so there's
animal studies where a better protein so
with animals you can obviously feed them
exactly what you want when you want them
so the drawback it's it's an animal
model but at least you know you're
studying what you're studying and you're
not asking people to do something so in
animal work protein distribution seems
to increase muscle mass gains there's
some epidemiological studies where
protein distribution seems to increase
muscle mass gains there's some muscle
protein synthesis studies that suggest
that it might matter though that study
is under pretty artificial conditions I
would say so it only feeds whey protein
no other nutrients something that would
never happen in practice but at least it
shows the concept that protein
distribution can impact muscle protein
synthesis so I'm yeah that study is not
concrete evidence that it would matter
but yeah what's clearly lacking is a
real human long-term like six-month
study again it's just unrealistic unless
someone give me a million and I can lock
up my subjects it's never going to
happen and again what's what makes it so
difficult it's like it's clearly not
well
for meals is going to give a 400%
increase in muscle mass gains compared
to one meal if that was a case it was
simple you would see it pretty easily
but it's probably going to give you a
marginal increase and therefore your
study needs to be very big and long to
show it suggests mechanistically it
makes sense the longest increase I've
seen in muscle protein synthesis after
protein is I think 5 hours it could be
longer so yeah it makes sense and at
some point muscle protein synthesis just
goes down we've done a study where we
fed subjects 1.7 grams of protein per
kilogram per day and then that well that
was essentially during the day so a
pretty standard protein intake and
breakfast lunch and dinner and then they
did exercise in the evening and then
even got some supplemental protein in
the evening now we measured muscle
protein synthesis during the night and
that was pretty low so that seems to
suggest that even if you eat quite a bit
of protein earlier in the day that
doesn't really gonna help you ten hours
later which makes sense to me so that
suggests that at least to some extent
you want to take meal frequency into
account but again real it would really
depend on what type of protein and how
much you're eating so if in that study I
just mentioned if you would eat a BBQ at
6 o'clock in the evening with 80 grams
of protein and saw meat protein so it
takes quite a bit to digest that would
probably still be digesting in the later
part of the evening so yeah I think that
meal frequency matters a little bit but
not that much so clearly the people who
are doing intermittent fasting are doing
fine it's not like oh I'm so that the
most popular protocol is to not eat 16
hours of the day then eat everything in
eight hours of the day so theoretically
you could argue there get the bull like
2/3 of the day well that's clearly not
the case so what I think is happening
there if you eat all your food and at
eight hours you'll be digesting that
meal for hours and hours and hours I
would think would be a fun experiment if
you would eat all your protein on an
intermittent fasting approach as whey
protein that wouldn't be ingesting hours
and hours later and I think in that
condition it would be set off the mall
to do intermittent fasting but if you
eat like yeah essentially barbecue at
the end of your fast at the end of your
feeding period yeah that pretty much
will last you during most of that
fasting period so again comes down to
perspective I think there's small
benefits to a protein frequency where I
would go for probably four meals a day
just lunch
a sorry breakfast lunch dinner and then
a pre sleep meal going beyond four meals
probably as little to no additional
benefit but again this this is a lot of
guessing because these studies like I'm
not stupid enough to do them unless
someone gives me a lot of money that I
can do it well because I could easily I
could easily do a frequency study
started tomorrow finished it in six
months to ten subjects in each group six
weeks can already I bet you a million
and I'm not really a gambler that
there's no statistical difference just
because a study is too small to possibly
find anything but I would be very
popular but like everyone would say like
see it doesn't doesn't matter yeah yeah
yeah I got you I tend to come down on
the side that it is probably slightly
better
I always flip-flop on this but I think
it's probably better to space it out
like you said over across like four or
five meals somewhat evenly spaced your
protein out oh I'm curious about your
opinion on what's called a muscle full
effect so basically you know if you
crank up the protein past twenty or
thirty grams or so you tend not to see
any further increases in muscle protein
synthesis so the the muscle is sort of
full
like maxed out and then so that would
almost if if that is true it almost
counts as a strike against the
intermittent fasting people who would
almost have to in order to reach their
total daily protein requirements be
eating meals with like 80 grams of
protein in them or something like that
what do you think of that line of
reasoning and so the muscle full effect
is another thing that I strongly dislike
you hear it mentioned a lot so it was
originally discovered in a study where
an amino acid infusion was given so
amino acids were just elevated in
subject during a whole period and even
though the amino acids were elevated in
the body during a long period at some
point muscle protein synthesis so it
went up at the start of the infusion and
and then at some point and went back
down so the idea is that at some point
your body just becomes unresponsive to
elevated amino acid levels so just a
muscle has enough it's full just
ignoring it just starts ignoring the
amino acids which to me make sense so
this comes back to what we discussed
that start that you cannot eat yourself
to our own in common level at some point
you become unresponsive to protein
otherwise why would you need exercise
but what's interesting is that all
studies that support this muscle protein
of this muscle full effect have been
done in the absence of exercise and then
there's a couple of studies where we
have looked at the muscle protein
synthesis to protein and then you see at
rest if you give like 20 grams of
protein muscle protein synthesis is
stimulated for about three hours but
then if you exercise and give 20 grams
of protein muscle protein synthesis was
measured for five hours which was the
maximum length that they measured it so
potentially even longer so what I think
is that the muscle full effect in rest
perfectly explains why you don't grow
from not training and just eating
protein but once you have that training
stimulus then
your body has a reason to keep
responding to protein so that
standardizing aspect of resistance
exercise it's the resistance exercise
that makes your protein useful so just
the bottom line is I'm very skeptical
that there is a muscle full effect if
you have done any exercise and well the
people who are watching that are pretty
much always in a post exercise condition
because that probably last 24 to 48
hours anyway so there's always at least
some muscles who are in a post exercise
condition right right right
for some reason it just seems counter
intuitive to me but if you know if we
take all this research and there seems
to be quite a bit of it suggesting that
you know you kind of get all your
anabolic bang for your buck with like 30
grams maybe 40 grams if you're elderly
or whatever so if you're eating 80 or
100 grams of protein in one meal what is
the rest of that protein doing how is it
contributing to the animalism in any way
like it seems like in light of this
research it really would be suboptimal
to chunk it you know he realizes like
that if the muscle full effect would be
real then like we mentioned earlier
intermittent fasting would be horrible
why again we would write very clearly
seeing studies that it's suboptimal and
you just don't see that to be fair there
is only one intermittent fasting study
would exercise but again that one seems
that seems to show that it's that it's
fine so yeah I would love to do a muscle
full study after exercise because my bet
is that there is no muscle full effect
so how is that the case though I mean
like like I said if if you max out the
anabolic response with 30 grams what's
the other 50 - say you're eating 80
grams of protein what's the other 50
grams of protein doing other than being
oxidized or what have you so in general
most of the protein that you eat doesn't
the muscle or at least is not build into
new muscle tissue anyway so you ingest
protein it's broken down into amino
acids into your gut and then so popular
question is how much protein can oh you
did a video how much protein can you
absorb in a meal
well you absorb 95 percent of your
protein depends a little bit on how much
you eat but essentially our protein that
you ingest is absorbed then the question
is where is all that protein going now
about half of the protein that you
ingest is retained in the splenic tissue
so essentially your gut because all
those tissues need protein as well and
in fact your the turnover of your gut is
very high so that means if your God is
constantly renewing itself so it's a
pretty greedy pretty greedy organ it
needs a lot of amino acids to keep
rebuilding itself so 50% of your protein
goes to your gut tissues that's not
really interesting for us as athletes
and the other 50% reaches the
circulation which is of course step one
before it can go to the muscle then 20%
of what reaches the circulation as being
taken up by the muscle so that's 10% of
what you initially ate so if you eat 20
grams to grams of that is taken up by
muscle tissue but importantly that was
done in a study at rest if you exercise
it would be slightly higher but even
uptake by the muscle doesn't mean that
it's built into muscle so step one is
just amino acid gets taken up by by
muscle tissue and then it needs to be
attached to other amino acids and be
formed into a myofibril so the
contractile protein to be useful and
that percent is I don't I don't know
that percentage from the top of my head
but even lower so while you
instinctively we already know this
because we know how
much protein weeds and if only 20% of
that would be muscle tissue then within
a few weeks we would all be Ronnie
Coleman right so yeah most proteins that
we eat be oxidized so essentially burned
for fuel right so don't you think that
this is a good strike against
intermittent fasting I mean like it
seems to be the case that if you're only
getting say one big serving of protein
and only a small fraction of that is
making it to the muscle you're basically
missing potential potential you know
feedings to spike muscle protein
synthesis again and get this machinery
running again and again it really seems
like it should hold but I guess what I'm
understanding is that your main argument
against it is that in the real world and
in this one intermittent fasting study
we do have these guys are not really
holding back their gains in any way so I
sorry so I again I think that that what
you're saying is true for a protein so
after whey protein if you increase that
above 20 grams or essentially any fast
protein then your body says oh I have so
much in the circulation let's start
burning it but if you have slower
proteins it would just stay in your gut
very long so if you have a barbeque it's
not unusual for I don't know 10 hours
later to still have like meat burps so
you just know that you're still
digesting that right right so I think
with real food it just becomes available
much later so you think your fasted for
16 hours but probably 12 hours later
you're still digesting some of your
protein right so what do you think of
this let's say you have this big feast
like you say and you have a hundred
grams of protein in that that one meal
it's not actually a hundred grams of
protein like hitting the muscle all at
once in practice it's almost like you
could be getting two or three meals out
of that as it slowly sort of makes its
way into circulation is there any sort
of like refractory period where the
muscle will say like you know except
some amino acids and get this machinery
going then it won't first a four or five
hours and then it'll take some more in
get it running again do you think that
that's what is probably going on there
yeah so the refraction era period
another one of those things I very
dislike sir that has been popularized by
Lee Norton who in general don't get me
wrong
great guy great information but just
that theory I don't really believe it I
don't see solid evidence for it
I've so the refraction era period the
idea is that again amino acids are
elevated they signal the body to
stimulate muscle protein synthesis and
then your body becomes unresponsive to
those amino acids and that's called the
refraction era period the period where
the body's just not responding and then
at some point your body becomes
responsive again while that pattern has
never been shown in a study so it's at
best a theory of we would call it
hypothesis and science to me it just
seems again it goes against the real
word data or even that study on
intermittent fasting that we've seen
especially when you exercise it doesn't
make sense that you would randomly turn
off your responsiveness to amino acids
so again for athletes I'm very skeptical
of it so yeah I have very little faith
in that theory hmm interesting um why is
it then do you think that when you look
at these studies where you have say a
bolus protein intake so they'll have
like two meals a day and then you may
have four meals a day and then say you
have like eight or ten meals a day so
like you have the same protein content
across the meals but you might have I
forget the numbers this came out us to
Philips lab I'm sure you know what I'm
talking about when you when you have a
lot of protein and two meals you don't
get quite the same muscle protein
synthesis as if you have say 30 grams
and four meals or if that's the optimal
and then you know uh yeah I'll give you
the the specific so I kind of mentioned
this study earlier without going through
the into the details so in
study subjects did resistance exercise
and then they measured muscle protein
synthesis over 12 hours three groups our
groups got 80 grams of protein and then
there was a bolus treatment so there was
two meals of 40 grams of protein so six
hours spaced apart then there was an
intermediate pattern so four meals of 20
grams of protein that optimal amount
every three hours and then there was ten
grams of protein eight meals every 90
minutes and then the intermediate
pattern was more effective than the
order tube so what I mentioned earlier
is that's pretty artificial condition
because it's all you're eating that
whole day is a fast protein which would
never happen in the real world and with
the fast protein I think the problem is
is once you start getting above that 20
grams so we discussed earlier up to 20
grams there's a linear increase in
muscle protein synthesis and after that
more or less but there is a very small
incremental gain so if you take all your
protein in these bonuses about half of
it that yeah everything above that 20
gram becomes very ineffective so that's
why I think that those 40 gram
treatments were worse than the 20 grams
or the 20 grams pretty much gives a near
maximum stimulation every three hours so
to me it makes perfect sense that in
those conditions that intermediate
pattern was optimal but if you would
repeat that exact same study but now use
casein I think there will be no
difference because because casein is a
slow protein in all groups there would
be this continuous elevation throughout
the whole period only with a fast
protein you would see these spikes and
but most of our food is slow protein so
I think again I think that's that study
is brilliant it's first muscle protein
synthesis study that
gives some evidence that protein
distribution can impact muscle protein
synthesis rates but it's really a
proof-of-concept study that doesn't
necessarily translate to the real world
yes again to be fair the
counter-argument you could make there is
that perhaps you should eat some fast
protein every three hours right so
that's the flip side like it's not what
most people do but theoretically you
could argue that as we discussed earlier
having this peak is high peak in amino
acids and especially leucine is
important so maybe you want that every
three hours maybe you can eat your
normal food just three to four meals per
day but it's a little bit of fast
protein on top of those meals maybe
that's optimal we really don't know
right correct me if I'm wrong but the
more pulse distribution so where you
were hitting them with low doses of
protein very frequently that seems to
mirror in the real world what you might
see more from a mixed meal distribution
where you have this a more steady drip
of amino acids so from that study that
was shown to be suboptimal exactly so
that comes back down to that other study
I described where if you eat or drink
your whey protein as a bolus it's more
effective than sipping it mm-hmm
this essentially that exact same concept
so that concept of having all your way
as a bolus is more effective than the
smaller drips it's true up to that 20
grams right but then after those 20
grams you get to the amounts where most
of it will get oxidized right so doesn't
that wouldn't that count as evidence as
for a refractory period I mean like if
if you uh if you're just like you know
sort of slow dripping it in or giving
you like 10 grand bolus is I don't know
15 times a day or something like that
you're not really responding well to
those those subsequent hits right don't
you think that would count as evidence
that there may be a refractory period to
my soul or no that that could be one
interpretation but you could also argue
that with those drips you just never
reach the peak plasma levels you
NEADS so to get that conclusion you
would and this this is always I always
like it when people do this online with
my studies or anyone's studies for that
matter it's always well we really need
this extra group yeah I know I want that
extra group as well just give me money
but so for that conclusion you would
need a four group where you would give
20 grams of protein at the same
frequency at those 90 minutes and if
that doesn't do better than the 10 grams
every 90 minutes then you show net that
there's a reflection airy period but
because that veteran never reached
reaches what seems to be the optimal
peak plasma levels of amino acids in the
blood you don't know whether it's the
speed or just a suboptimal level that's
a limiting effect gotcha yeah that's
that actually clears that up quite a lot
because this is something I always I
guess like argue with myself about
because on the one hand you have this
intermittent fasting group part who are
they really do seem to be getting good
results or a few studies showing that
they you know over the long term tend to
see similar hypertrophy regardless of
distribution but then you do have this
acute data that really does seem to
suggest that if you are consuming single
isolated protein sources then a more
intermediate bolus and pattern is better
than just either slow dripping it or not
or rather slow dripping it which seems
to mimic more of white the type of
pattern you'd see with intermittent
fasting so I don't know I guess I still
don't feel like I have a perfectly clear
answer on that but I'm gonna hedge my
bet towards having a little bit more of
a more even meal distribution but if
intermittent fasting happens to fit your
lifestyle or schedule better than there
doesn't seem to be any real harm exactly
so again really comes down to
perspective it just up from all these
discussions like I there's nothing I
love better than having these
discussions but the problem is when
people have any discussion said like no
clearly the research shows that total
protein amounts is the only thing that
matters like I know in the last couple
of minutes kind of defended that
intermittent fasting is not that bad but
if you were like super Pro intermittent
fasting I would say well actually this
study you know so it's when someone
clearly says this is the conclusion at
this point we don't have those solid
answers so on so on things they clearly
know the answer on meal frequency they
haven't thought through all the variants
so like I mentioned that study showed
this great study if you do it with slow
protein do you still see the same thing
if you do it with a soil with a
different total amount of protein over
those time period do you still see the
same results you could argue all kinds
of ways and that's what people need to
do like really be critical like this
study has shown that under those
circumstances if we try playing around
with the variables which you still see
the same thing and the answer is we
don't really know but I would definitely
agree with you I think if something is
superior then my money would be on a
slightly higher frequency um I think up
to four meals is pretty good and to me a
higher frequency than four meals
unlikely that that will be any of any
practical value right yeah yeah that's
what I would say - so John since I've
liked since we've been in contact a
little bit I've been reading a little
bit more of your stuff and lately I've
been really making an effort to have a
protein shake before I go to bed so I
take like a mixed protein it's actually
a milk protein isolate so it's like kind
of a blend of whey encasing before I go
to bed and I'll have about like 25 to 30
grams of that protein how do you think
that that's a good idea do you think
it's important to have some kind of pre
bed protein intake yeah so that's again
perspective perspective perspective so
people some people love to say like oh
there's no good evidence for meal
distribution and thus Priestly protein
doesn't matter to those people I would
say perspective at the end of the day
you're at home you have two options take
that extra protein shake or you don't
maybe it's because of the extra protein
intake maybe it's because of the
distribution maybe both contribute some
part but not taking that shake is there
fully not gonna give you extra results
so to me there's literally only upside
to taking an extra protein shake
prior to sleep vote form the total
protein intake as well as that meal this
meal distribution aspect so what's
interesting about the pre sleep meal is
that so I mentioned earlier that those
dose response studies indicate that 20
grams of protein more or less give like
a near maximal stimulation of muscle
protein synthesis but those studies were
only like four hours long right
however the night is typically seven
eight perhaps even longer depending on
how early you ate before that so what's
interesting is I did a study where I
gave 30 grams of protein and it didn't
result in a significant increase in
overnight muscle protein synthesis rates
over about an eight-hour period so that
is indirect evidence but it suggests
that you need oh very important to
mention we did an earlier study where 40
grams of protein death stimulate over
night's muscle protein synthesis rates
so if you combine those two results it
seems you need a larger protein meal to
keep muscle protein synthesis elevated
for a longer period so that 20 gram per
meal
isn't necessarily always true it's only
true if your next meal as four hours
later which is obviously not the case
prior to sleep so we think that going up
to 40 grams prior to sleep might be the
most effective to be fair we also did a
long-term study on protein
supplementation and in that study 30
grams of sleep 30 grams of protein
increased muscle mass gains in a 12-week
study so it's not that you necessarily
need that forty grams but based on our
muscle protein synthesis work we think
that going beyond 30
might have some extra benefit now
interesting that long-term study we used
a combination of fast and slow protein
which is what you're taking so you're
essentially doing what that study yeah
so that's a pretty safe bet that that's
a good idea
mmm perhaps to quickly address people
have various concerns but pre sleep
feeding doesn't it make me fat nope so
in in the in the long term study it was
priestly protein and also a little bit
of carbs added to it don't know the
exact amount regardless that group did
increase muscle of yeah it did increase
muscle mass thank God
compared to the control group but body
fat did an increase so no doesn't see if
now I'm not saying if a huge thousand
calorie meal before going to bed there
is some evidence I'm not sure how
convinced I am but there's some evidence
to circadian rhythm and fat storage I
think overall again comes back down to
those two that the total daily make rows
are definitely the most important thing
but there's at least some suggestion
that maybe you shouldn't eat all your
calories just before sleep but at least
the stuff that we recommend so
relatively small amounts of just one
macronutrient protein that doesn't seem
to result in fat gain and then our
colleagues from the u.s. from Mike
Ormsby lab and they have investigated
the effect of pre-sleep protein on
overnight lipolysis on appetite the next
morning insulin sensitivity and they
find no detrimental effects of pre sleep
protein so perhaps carbs and fat are not
the best idea I don't think it matters
that much but protein is definitely safe
prior to sleep gotcha and then perhaps
the the lasting sleep quality so yeah we
have measured sleep quality in our
studies and find apps
no detrimental effects do be fair it's
not that we use two gold standard of
sleep quality so I wouldn't say that
there's absolutely no effect of
pre-sleep feeding on sleep quality but
it's definitely not like oh you fall
asleep forty minutes slower or anything
like that
yeah and I've definitely never seen that
in my own experience and to me it seems
to come back to that idea that you
relate you have nothing to lose you
potentially have something to gain so
why why not do it unless of course like
you said you know you're just someone
who's like trying to do the minimum
amount to get like 80% of the results or
whatever but assuming you're someone who
is looking to kind of you know max out
your gains or whatever I feel like
there's a good amount of literature
suggesting that you'd probably be wise
to take some kind of protein before
going to bed and perhaps more than you
might take at other meals what do you
think of the idea so this is something I
used to do when I first got into
bodybuilding and I was a lot more
neurotic than I am now this is gonna
sound absolutely crazy
and it is but I used to leave a can of
tuna in the bathroom and I would eat it
when I get up to like go pee in the
middle of the night so it'd be like
three or four a.m. and I just like you
know coughed down this can of tuna and I
I went with tuna just because I thought
at the time that like supplemental
sources of protein were like not as good
because they're not natural or whatever
but do you think that it might be a good
idea to have that extra like maybe slam
away shake or something in the morning
when you go to use or in the middle of
the night when you go to use the
bathroom or something like that yeah I
think the answer is it depends on the
circumstances so I don't think you have
to but it really depends on how much
protein you eat prior to sleep so if I
think that with that 40 grams of slowly
digestible protein you're good the whole
night right but then in the study with
the 30 grams of protein I didn't really
see it so what I think happened there is
that the 30 grams stimulated muscle
protein synthesis in the first couple of
hours and then not in the later part of
that of the night so if you have only a
small priestly protein meal then some
extra pro
in the middle of the night is probably a
good idea but if you have a huge pre
sleep meal then I don't think you need
it and then you can further extrapolate
that principle I think if you have that
80 grams of protein barbecue at 6
o'clock in the evening I don't think you
need the pre sleep meal right now you
can further extrapolate that concept I
think if you do intermittent fasting and
eat 150 grams of protein and it's slowly
digestible I don't really think you need
to eat the other 16 hours would that be
slightly better well that's our previous
discussion probably but so I think
eating enough protein of a slowly
digestible protein source will probably
keep you safe for most hours but so we
did a that study in over 300 athletes
again all the way up to Olympic level
and we saw that they eat a reasonable
amount of total protein during the day
so that's 1.5 grams per kilogram per
body weight so that's pretty close to
that 1.6 gram from the meta-analysis and
again these were not bodybuilders so
we're just you know pretty much everyone
just wanted to go to the Olympics but
not for bodybuilding so that's pretty
solid so total protein intake in most
athletes seems to be solid but what we
saw and we looked at the distribution is
that more than 80% of protein was from
their three main meals so breakfast
lunch and dinner but then some at least
in a Netherlands dinner is usually at
six o'clock in the evening and then
breakfast is often six to seven o'clock
in the morning so that's a 12-hour
window so it's almost intermittent
fasting you could say so for them the
advice of take some extra priestly
protein just seems you know the biggest
bang for your buck you would increase
your total protein intake and you do it
on the most possible strategic moments
so do you need to do it probably not but
you might as well do it especially if
you're an athlete that once you go
to the Olympics so again perspective
right right gotcha
om the with regards I would definitely
not set my alarm clock so other people
have asked me this question and then
some say well I would take a protein
shake with a lot of water prior to sleep
and then I would have to wake up to B
and then I would eat my second shake or
that junuh
I guess that is acceptable but there's
pretty good evidence that your sleep
quality goes down drastically if you
wake up unintentional throughout the
night so even though your total sleep
time won't be affected much by sending
an alarm eating that tuna going back to
sleep but just just seems very bad to
interrupt your your sleep veteran for it
so I think there's a big difference
between waking up for it or naturally
waking up and then having some protein
right right right yeah that that makes
perfect sense to me so I I think we're
in a good spot to kind of wrap wrap it
up here and kind of maybe cover some of
the practical takeaways that you can do
so what I was thinking was maybe cover
training and nutrition very quickly and
do it for someone who say is just trying
to you know get some good results
probably get most of the results they
can but they're not going to try to bend
over backwards to get it and then
someone who is a competitive bodybuilder
or wanting to do the best they can in
their sport what would be the
recommendations for those two camps yeah
so training wise I think a good starting
point is doing at least 10 sets per week
you know I think that's pretty solid for
your first year maybe even your first
two years of training probably in at
least two two workouts for a a muscle
group a week again if you do a training
split see how muscle groups overlap I
would take my rest periods at least 2
minutes between exercises I wouldn't
worry much about rep ranges you might as
well do the 6 to 12 just
you don't have to worry that you're
missing out on the hypertrophy rep range
but I don't think it matters much full
range of motion seems to be superior to
a smaller range of motions even when you
correct for the amount of weight you can
lift yeah that's pretty much the main
things training wise then protein or
nutrition wise overall caloric intake is
important to maximize muscle mass gains
but you don't need to be in a caloric
surplus to gain muscle I for most people
I would definitely the minimum list I
would argue against aggressive cutting
and aggressive bulking just eat close to
maintenance and then tailor a little bit
on your goal protein intake 1.6 grams
per kilogram for bodyweight that's too
much math for you just you 20 grams of
protein breakfast lunch dinner and 40
grams prior to sleep that's pretty solid
for most people if you do that you don't
even have to worry all that much about
protein quality but keep in mind that in
general animal-based protein is better
if you only eat plant-based protein at
least either try to eat a little bit
more mix different plant based sources
each meal yeah total protein intake is
definitely the most important thing if
you do that don't worry about the other
things but if you can and let's be
honest most people already eat three
meals and taking some extra protein
prior to sleep only as off-site and I
think that's if you do all those as a
minimalist you'll get solid gains
and then just for the people out there
who want that extra a little bit what
would be let's say if you had two things
based on your research and all your
reading what would you say would be like
the two extra things to do if you could
only pick two to sort of get those
little bit of extra I want to win the
world championship type gains gains I'm
gonna give you a treat because I didn't
like your game
as a training wise I would overtime try
to increase my volume and would fall you
mind I mean number of challenging sets
you should see soon enough whether it's
too much if your lifts are not going up
every couple of months you're probably
either under or over training so my
guess rutile covers a lot of that stuff
so go that check that out then protein
wise yeah for if you really want to
optimize things there's no reason to not
have at least 40 grams of protein each
meal at least four times of per day if
you do that it's also the total amount
is solid so just yeah there's just just
really no drawback to eating more
protein so that's that's my advice
pretty simple then the third tip was is
pretty much everyone I know has sub
optimal sleep and sleep we said it for a
long time
eat trained sleep but everyone in our
Western world cuts on the sleep the most
famous study is a study where if you eat
8.5 hours if you sleep 8.5 hours per
night on a diet more you lose more fat
but retain more muscle so clearly
indicating that sleep is beneficial for
body composition
what's compared to us to a group that
slept pretty little pretty little 4.5
grams but if you look at other outcomes
such as cognitive performance you see
that even seven hours of sleep is
suboptimal and then most people think
they sleep seven hours which is already
too little but most people spend seven
hours in bed and then sleep maybe six
and 20 minutes or something like that so
just sleep more it's just makes
everything better
yeah yeah I would agree I don't forget
that pre sleep meal right that's number
four yeah it's part of protein okay well
thanks Jordan that was
awesome just like summary of I think a
lot of different stuff so hopefully
people will find that to be informative
very comprehensive I really appreciate
you taking your time out of your day's
going on it's two and a half hours so I
really do appreciate it and I'm sure
that people will as well if you guys
found this to be helpful make sure you
go over and check out Jordans stuff so
he's a really great follow on Instagram
a lot of really I guess intellectually
thorough but yet still I guess easy to
understand information presented over
there in a really clean way so what is
your Instagram handle drawer it's my
name
Yohan Tamela I hope you put that in the
description because otherwise people
have no clue yeah it's--that's-- name
yeah and then yeah I also have a website
nutrition tactics where you can find me
on most most platforms so either my name
or nutrition tactics right and I just
realized all this time I've been saying
Jordan and I probably shouldn't be
saying yarn is that right so I I the
best thing about being Dutch is that
it's always interesting to see how
people just butcher your name so I know
some people are probably their name is
very important to them to me it's just
pure entertainment right yeah so I'm not
sure which nationality is it but some
countries like they all always make it
sound like porn and that's just best
even at congresses so yeah yeah I guess
and then is there anything else that
people should check out for you maybe
your website anything else you want to
plug here the platform really if people
have spent doing all of ours listening
to us I'm just grateful and then yeah
don't probably check out the other stuff
and if they want they can find me I'm
sure tradition tactics yarn trauma cool
awesome man yeah I'll have everything
linked in the description anyway to be
sure but yeah thank you guys so much for
tuning in
I'm if you found the video to be helpful
please leave me a thumbs up or leave a
comment down below we'll be paying
attention down there so oh yeah if
something you I said you don't believe
yeah put a comment down below and I will
argue your ass hey we can all learn from
each other yeah if your Majesty vang
angry comment we won't recommend it
especially on Jeff's gentle no but
seriously guys all I'll check it out and
I'll try
common if if I find the time there you
go awesome all right thank you once
again guys don't forget to subscribe if
you happen to be new and we'll see you
[Music]