hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization welcome back to another
video edition of BS which you know what
it stands for and it's not bicarbonate
synthesis it's something more related to
what comes out of cows butts when
they're happy and eating grass
today's BS is
weekends off
during fat loss dieting what exactly
does that mean so here's what this looks
like tons of people aren't fat loss
diets even right now and they're
grinding their butts off
the entire work week
making the awesome fat loss progress
hitting the gym and their diet is sharp
sharp sharp so they are making sure not
to overeat and they're doing great
generating a good calorie deficit maybe
something reasonable like 500 calories a
day
and even something higher like six or
seven hundred calories a day in a
deficit just burning that fat amazing
then a problem occurs
Friday night occurs and they get drunk
that's right
have all these nasty thoughts in your
head and they won't go away unless you
Swig a couple of pints or glasses or
shots or more back
after you're drunk
well during you being drunk you eat pub
food which is delicious only when you're
drunk but you're drunk when you're at
the pub then you get street food
afterwards
you wake up the next morning and have a
bunch of snacks then of course your
girlfriends ring you and it's time for
brunch
and then you have a good old solid
heaping of regret
because you just ate a crap ton of
calories way over what you were supposed
to in order to continue to stay on the
fat loss plan but why the regret no
didn't you just like
only mess up two days of the week the
week seven days long you were great most
of the time
you were on plan
you know five to two sounds like you
know the five is the winning team there
what happens well here's the thing
big problem is that many folks can put
away
like 1500 Extra calories Friday and
Saturday respectively no problem on top
of their normal diets
that's a ton of calories
that's a big problem
and you would think well how do they eat
that many calories folks remember
a whole pizza like a large normal Pizza
is something like 4 000 calories
I know some people that can eat a lot
more than that when they're drunk and
it's Friday night and they just put the
food down
absolutely is a thing that happens
and then so Friday they go crazy
Saturday they really go crazy and
remember they're very hungry from the
week of dieting so that rebound hunger
effector is really gnarly and when you
start to eat the kind of junk foods that
are delicious that you've been saving
yourself from eating during the week you
start to really be able to pour them in
and holy crap that's a lot of food
Sunday you go ease in back to normal
which means you still hit something like
a 500 calorie Surplus on that Sunday
which is not a deficit day unless you
don't accomplish any fat loss on it and
still gain a little bit of fat
what's wrong with that
well if you consume an extra
3 500 calories above your weekly 500
calorie a day deficit
that one pound a week fat loss that you
would have gotten if you stuck to your
diet is completely and I mean completely
erased
during the week you were very well on
track to gay to lose like a pound of fat
and then during the weekend is just not
that hard to eat back so many calories
that your total fat loss over the week
averages out to precisely zero
you're back to square one which is total
BS and one of the reasons that it's BS
and that makes this thing very tragic is
that even if you're losing fat still but
it's incredibly slowly
sometimes you can gain fat with this
approach but most often it results in
roughly maintenance why most often your
body regulates its hunger signals very
well to try to keep you at maintenance
so if you diet to below maintenance
Monday through Friday Friday night your
body's like bro let's eat up man you're
starving and it automatically signals
your hunger in such a way that gets you
very close to actually eating at a
maintenance diet
why is this particularly tragic you're
just a maintenance no big deal nobody
lost nobody found in a sense yes but
something was lost you lost four and a
half perfectly good days Monday through
Friday of eating like a normal person
well balanced you were low on energy you
were hungry you know Becky from
accounting the fucking bitch that skinny
as fucking eats whatever she wants you
watched her dig into eclair after eclair
paying no price court at all while
you're staring at chicken and broccoli
and going like what a fucking God
things I would do if she wasn't a
fucking accounting Savant I petition to
have her fired so I didn't have to watch
her eating eclairs and paying no price
you were suffering that whole time
dieting is hard work it's tough low on
energy mental and physical getting crazy
Cravings your kids are yapping in the
back seat you haven't had a carb in
three and a half days it's a tough life
and then what do you do you take all of
that misery and suffering and even if
it's not misery and suffering hard
fucking work of dieting for most of the
week and you just erase the living shit
out of it with a grand old regrettable
ass time on the weekends if you're gonna
maintain you can still have some BS on
the weekends you just got to be fairly
active and eat mostly healthy foods not
in a way that starves you during the
week and it's mission accomplished if
you're gonna suffer during the week it
might as well be for a purpose other
than to get back on the scale on Monday
and go fuck I didn't lose anything for
the third week straight shit I had a
good time on the weekends you could have
a good time on the weekend on
maintenance on a fat loss phase you'd
want that work to be for something how
do you accomplish that well you pick up
dust off your I'm a fucking adult hat
and you put it on your head and you go
you know what the next eight to 12 weeks
of my life is for the purpose of fat
loss in like Renaissance periodization
expert coach Melissa Davis always says a
doctor Melissa Davis
dieting in the fat loss mode is not
meant to be sustainable you're not going
to lose fat forever you would fucking
die if you tried to do that you just
have to lose fat for 8 to 12 weeks and
then you transition into maintenance and
in perpetuity if you like you can have a
balanced life where you don't have to
restrain yourself like a psychotic
person or you could do that for three or
four months after and then for another
two to three months dip in and lose some
more fun the process of fat loss dieting
is temporary
if you're in your boss's office and he's
narrating some grand scheme and you're
taking notes on your laptop you probably
aren't picking up your phone and video
chatting with your friends while you're
doing it why because right now your job
is to stay in the office and and type
what your boss uh thinks and organize it
well for him and then send an email to
all the other departments because you're
an adult you realize that now is the
time for work and later I'm gonna video
chat with Sally and we're gonna have a
ball talking about that new Real
Housewives of
Detroit episode I don't even know if
that's a real thing it should be my wife
will gladly volunteer for it in any case
you know that there's a time to put in
the work and a time to enjoy and relax
and if putting in the work has to occur
sequentially over 8 to 12 weeks for it
to be effective
this is some shit you're gonna have to
do and if you say well I was really good
this week again morally conflating
something that's just a technical
element of dieting I deserve a break on
Friday and Saturday I agree with you and
what you also deserve is not to lose any
fat that's just the way the world works
so here is something I implore you to do
if you're on a fat loss phase do not
take weekends off it's Monday through
Friday on Saturday Sunday you're on
you're always on but it's just for 8 to
12 weeks once you're done with that you
transition into maintenance and you live
an awesome balanced lifestyle that has
an incredible two benefits One You're
Now leaner mission accomplished and two
when you go and have junk Foods on the
weekends on your maintenance phase it
doesn't lead to a nasty rebound and a
total weight gain
thus you have no regrets because regrets
are bullshit I don't have them I'm
Arnold I've never had the regret in my
life I've won seven olympias and and
yeah yeah mine what is that sound that
he says nine what does that mean I
wonder if Arnold if you could comment on
this video we would appreciate it folks
that's all of the not funny jokes I have
for today hopefully you learned
something maybe you didn't come back
next time maybe we'll teach you some
stuff and I'll see you then