alright hey guys so this is part two of
our three-part video series covering our
trip to the Arnold Classic so on Friday
we went to the pro Racha and then the
next day we spent a lot of time at the
expo and this was where we got to meet
just a whole bunch of people that we've
been following online for a long time
and probably the person I was most
excited to finally meet in person was
Lane Norton and a lot of people might
not realize this but Lane was actually
my coach for the Canadian Junior
Nationals way back in 2012 and he was
sort of the person who taught me the
basic groundwork when it comes to
tracking macros and a science-based
approach to bodybuilding and nutrition
so it was really sweet to actually meet
him him in person you'll see Marshall
Johnson there in the background who we
met as well and then it was Doug Miller
so this guy looks 10 times as freaky in
person photos and videos yes they've
been fangirling Doug ever since he got
back and it was pretty cool Doug
actually signed a photo for us Jeff and
Robin keep crushing it and so at the
Expo there was just a whole bunch of
booths the thing was packed and I didn't
really want to have my camera going so I
snapped a pic of the hodgetwins here who
were actually just in fantastic shape
and had a huge line this is Marissa or
Marissa bish on Instagram for MTV and so
I met her and her boyfriend Frank
McGrath who was from the same province
on the east coast of Canada that I'm
from so it was really cool to get a
photo with Marissa and Chad and catch up
with Frank a little bit because you know
we had met before and then I met Candido
and we were gonna go and play basketball
but I think Candido got invited out for
pizza and
so that took precedence over any sort of
cardiovascular training of course and so
I didn't get any of that on film but
what I did manage to do was get a little
bit of footage from my work out with Ian
McCarthy of lifting for life and it was
really cool to be able to connect with
Ian because he's a guy that I've been
following pretty much since the
beginning of my science-based
journey in bodybuilding and so yeah this
is our back workout that we did it was
actually filmed right before I went to
the night show and so we didn't get to
do a whole lot but here at the beginning
you'll hear Ian joking he said to do a
four-second concentric because he always
gets a hard time on the youtubes for his
time under tension stuff and I think a
lot of people misrepresent him about
that so he was just playing around and I
tried to do a four-second concentric on
the first rep and it just threw off the
rest of the whole rest of the set I
think it was done on purpose so yeah we
kicked it off with wide grip is actually
a really funny guy and realized like you
just like is constantly making jokes and
like doesn't take himself too seriously
it's like - it's really it was really
cool to meet him and hang out with yeah
and so I think we did something like
four sets of ten to twelve reps ish and
this is my friend Anthony and his friend
who you know I had connected upon mine
but we finally got to train and her
saying it like Robin said you know it
was just cool to make like-minded people
have similar science-based approaches
and are passionate about training in the
same sort of stuff you know we had some
really cool conversations about protein
intake meal timing your frequency
training and it's really cool to be able
to converse with people who are educated
on topic so after we did those wide-grip
lat pull-downs we switched to a neutral
grip pull downs with a slight lean
backwards and you'll notice I'm going
really slow for us really tried it
before or we thought it was a new
exercise you're like doing it maybe a
dice cuz like use much lighter weight
than I think yeah so I used the same way
as Ian's girlfriend his exercise but
what I was trying to focus on here was
actually treating the movement as if it
were a pullover and it was a different
feel that's for sure I'll just leave it
at that and here's me posing you decided
to nice well I decided to do some posing
after it's what I'm really trying to
practice like farther out from the show
so that I get used to going through my
routine and like adding a little bit
more flair and just being more
comfortable on stage so it was kind of
cool Jeff asked to film it so I agreed
and yes it needs a little clip of my
I'm still roofing on my way but that has
been like I don't know why I'm just so
awkward with my hands
they don't know oh and here's me I guess
I was totally thinking machines set so
here's me trying to be that team band
and like Jeff said it was like I don't
know we were trying to do it like pull
over ish but I think it was just
supposed to be a close grip like 45
degree angle lay down but yeah look and
learn I guess yeah so here's me and is
gonna go for a PR
so yeah you can see that like he's not
he's not really treating it as a it's
just like a closed spirit like a new
program and he just kind of like but you
know me and Anthony are both really well
thought through when it comes to
exercise and the biomechanics of those
exercises as he strikes as opposed so
then after that we did and you can see
in doing some 45-degree back extensions
there and that was sort of how we
finished out the workout with some more
poison Jeff is a really good person and
he does practice posing all year and
well like everyone's he'll he'll do
something the lighting was really good
in this gym but we almost need having
some amount of melanin in order to see
where we were like typical like what you
would expect comedians me have zero skin
pigmentation like I see through Jeff is
just like yeah and so this is what I
need to bring up this year's is that
thickness through there I mean I have
the width there in terms of fact I yeah
and I have them back upper but there's a
really funny comment on your Instagram
just describing like what the back
like oh he was like hashtag laughed ass
I'm here I'm like teaching Anthony and
how to pose bikini like Anthony is so
good at it like he just like hit that
pose look at him and then gave me a
little suggestion he thinks that I
should put my hand on the other hip very
I'm trying to like emphasize the hands
Mason look at Anthony Lee it's really
good alright guys so that's part two of
the video thank you for watching if you
enjoyed the video don't forget to like
it subscribe if you haven't already