guys so I'm wade in a new way in lo of
160 1.8 Escalade breakfast pretty much
the same but instead of scrambling the
eggs this morning Robin made them into
omelets so it's a little change but the
macros are the same and then potato
patties as usual my coffee and my mixed
berries
so the good news guys is that I did
qualify for LASIK eye surgery so I have
an appointment to get that done at the
end of the month and it's not the best
timing in the world because I have
planned to do another meet on July 2 12
I'm going to be doing the New Brunswick
powerlifting provincials this is
something that I mentioned to Eric but
it isn't something we're really going to
peak for it's basically just something
for me to do along the way in my prep
and Robin and I get to travel to New
Brunswick and do another meet for fun so
we're gonna hit that the problem is is
I'll have to take a few days up to a
week off of training or only doing very
light training probably a couple weeks
out from that meet which sort of sucks
but like I said it's not a meet that I'm
really putting everything in DC so I'd
rather get the laser eye surgery done
and over with a meet at this point just
four or five weeks into my contest prep
is perfectly fine and it'll be a good
indicator for me as to whether I've lost
any strength or gained any strength with
programming and with the weight that I'm
losing if I can maintain that strength
than that's great and I don't think I'll
be doing any more meat after this one
into the show I'll probably stick to
more of the bodybuilding style of
training and just go all the way through
with that until the stage
so I can adopt this workout here with a
few sets of leg extensions and like
curls and then I finished off the
workout with UK here's a look at my
post-workout and bedtime meal we trained
late tonight so it's 11 to 23 and
there's actually almost 50 grams of
protein in there believe it or not it's
egg whites whey protein cocoa powder or
mini cocoa powder actually semi-sweet
chocolate chips and crunched-up
granola bar yeah I don't have a okay
alright guys so it's a refeed day and
this is what I've got from my first meal
it's two pancakes done on our new
griddle turkey bacon hash brown and a
whole leg and this is the best water
flavoring that I've tried yet it's the
me lemonade and this is what Robin has
currently putting the tella
meal number two a three feed day gonna
be a quest bar yeah alright guys so this
is gonna be my pre-workout meal that's
another slice of turkey bacon
and what will eventually be a grilled
cheese Sam and also I just had a protein
shake so just the simple Costco lean fit
protein and you guys might or might not
be aware of this but one thing that I
always check for when I'm buying protein
is under the ingredients I'll look for
glycine creatine and towering and if it
has any of those in there then I don't
buy it because that means it's amino
spike this is what it looks like
prior to mashing and this is what it
becomes and just so you guys know you
don't need to have carbs in your
post-workout meal to spike
muscle protein synthesis all you need is
protein if you're doing consecutive it's
like depleting workouts in one day or
within a 24 hour span that could be a
good idea to have carbs just to
replenish that glycogen but otherwise it
doesn't prevent muscle protein synthesis
and it doesn't seem to decrease rates of
muscle protein breakdown and whether or
not we actually want to decrease rates
of muscle protein breakdown is another
question that remains to be fully seen
so I'm gonna eat this and then talk to
you guys after all right so here's the
mmm pseudo last meal of my reefy because
I've still got to make my rack grows all
up at the end of the night kind of burnt
because I was editing another vlog and I
kind of burned it ok guys so this is the
official last meal I ended up having
about a hundred grams of carbs left to
hit so I'm gonna have two glasses of
this lemonade right here which is
and that'll give me 48 grams of carbs
and I'm gonna have a bag of this popcorn
that'll give me about another 50 or so
grams of carbs
okay guys so back in the gym for another
whole day since I'm still sort of
running my own self-guided D load slash
amrap testing I decided to work up to
another five rep max on the seal row so
I managed to get two hundred and five
pounds for five this week and I'm just
really growing to love this exercise
because once you know how to set it up
it doesn't take that long it took me
about a about a half hour the first week
it took me about five minutes the second
week and it just basically prevents any
cheating and stops any momentum so that
you can really track your progress
accurately from week to week
and then I moved on to the pull-up again
and guys if you would like to go check
it out I'm gonna put a link on the
screen here to our new blog so that's
the strong com the log where I'll be
posting probably on a weekly basis
things not necessarily to do with my
prep but probably just nutritional
science or Exercise Science in general
the last post that I wrote there was to
do with having too much flexibility with
your diet but you guys can feel free to
go ahead and check that vlog oh so after
the pull-ups I moved on to Close Grip
seated cable row for three or four sets
of eight to twelve and then I moved on
to a reverse PEC deck to really target
through your delts and then this is my
variation of the cable curl so these are
Bayesian cable curls where you face away
from the cable machine I just love this
exercise
so it's post-workout and we're gonna eat
some sushi first time I've had sushi in
a while now actually since I started
prep so I'm looking forward to this