increasing your pull-up
can be a big deal both repetitions and
just being able to do more pull-ups with
weight attached
it's a big deal a lot of folks want to
know how to be able to do more pull-ups
or to get better at 1rming their pull-up
and we have some simple tips we have
eight tips for you today eight
Improvement tips that you can use ASAP
to improve your ability to do pull-ups
so first
is to standardize your Technique
uh one of the things I suppose I'm not a
big fan of is when people are very
serious about increasing their pull-up
ability and the way they'll set up for
pull-ups is they'll jump and grab the
pull-up handle and start going
where you put your hands when you jump
is going to vary considerably making
every single set for pull-ups slightly
different and that doesn't allow your
body to really
um improve or sort of impose its motor
learning effect on the ability to do a
pull-up if you standardize everything
putting your you know pinkies and hands
in the same place every time rapping or
unwrapping your thumbs doing the same
range of motion preferably for a deep
stretch and all the way up to at least
the chin then you start to do that sort
of Pull-Up over and over and over and
over and over and yes while your ability
to do pull-ups is in large
margin determined by your general
pulling strength and how much you weigh
a big part of being able to do pull-ups
is just the neural efficiency in the
technique of doing pull-ups and your
body gets really really good at stuff
you practice all the time so if you
practice the same way or a very similar
way over and over and over and over
you standardize your pull-up technique
that can make you really really good at
doing that technique and since that
technique is a pull-up you'll be getting
better at pull-ups being able to do more
max weight or maximum reps so that's
number one next you want to spend time
in the Target rep range for doing
pull-ups this is a short-term strategy
that works for a few months eventually
more advanced stuff will have to be
imposed but we'll do that video next
week but a lot of folks
you know if they want to improve how
many pull-ups they can do for reps
you'll see them doing some interesting
stuff as far as repetitions train in the
rep range you want to improve so if it's
maximum number of pull-ups that you want
at least in the short term do slightly
weighted five or ten pounds on the belt
or unweighted or barely assisted
pull-ups stay close to your body weight
and do rep sets close to failure to be
able to good at four get good at for
example sets of ten if your pull-up is
around 10 reps Max you want to be able
to be good in that rep range and
training that rep range all the time is
the best if you train for example with a
huge amount of weight and do sets of
three to six repetitions that will make
you very strong in the pull-up but if
you transition to taking that weight off
and seeing how many pull-ups you can get
maximum which is sort of what you were
going for all along it's going to be a
weird transitional time where you're
doing reps and your body English is
different because the weight doesn't
pull you the same your legs start moving
a lot it's it's a strange thing you
might sort of get tired and crampy
earlier even though you feel like you
have a lot of strength so train in the
rep range you want at least for a few
weeks then you I promise you'll have a
better result if you want the best 1rm
in the pull-up basic strength is where
to train and that's sets of three to six
repetitions with progressively more
weight eventually you do some doubles
and singles uh take a little easy
workout and then try to do the biggest
pull-up on a ram that you can after that
next this is a big deal do pull-ups more
often if you really want to get good at
Pull-Ups
and if
not all of the workouts are super hard
for example you could have a situation
where you have three workouts per week
in which you train Pull-Ups
one of the workouts can be relatively
heavy with some assistance or sorry the
opposite of assistance weight that you
hang off of yourself with some pull-ups
after with no weight
another workout maybe that could be
Monday Wednesday could be you do lots of
pull-ups with no weight and then
assisted Pull-Ups so they're actually
lighter than normal get extra high
volume and that's really good and then
Friday think to yourself okay if I do
another hard pulling workout with lots
of pull-ups it'll fry me it'll be too
much but hold on a sec you might not
have to do that you might be able to do
a workout based mostly in rows or some
other parts of your back that don't
really overdo the pull-up movement but
you might take
either at the end of the workout or at
the beginning or somewhere in the middle
probably beginning or end my preferences
for the beginning
is to do just a couple of sets of two or
three repetitions in the pull-ups let's
say you're able to do 10 to 15 Pull-Ups
on that Friday a couple of sets of two
to three reps in the pull-up can allow
you while focusing by the way on a ton
of awesome technique
that can allow you to get one more
technical practice session we're sort of
treating the pull-up like a power lift
like you would do a very light deadlift
to practice the technique of the
deadlift even though you can't do more
heavy Deads because it fatigues you too
much the same principle applies for
pull-ups a lot of people the way they
get go to pull-ups is they just do
pull-ups like five days a week or
something that could be a really good
way to do it it could be a bit Overkill
it could be sub-optimal but what they're
getting right at least in that part is
they practice practice doing the pull-up
what I don't want you guys to do is
really really give a about how many
pull-ups you can do and then do one time
a week you have pull-ups in your workout
and even though you can do sets of 10 to
15 no problem I understand that if you
can only do one or two pull-ups maybe
that Max effort is really only for one
day of the week but if you can do good
sets of pull-ups but you're only doing
them on one day and you have several
well you have six other days of the week
let's say we take a day off five other
training days potentially in which you
can do pull-ups at least in a few of
them you should do some serious pulling
and maybe in one of those when it's too
much and it's too much too much volume
to do a lot of really high effort
pull-ups maybe you can do a couple of
doubles in pull-ups just to be able to
get a little bit more time spending
ingraining that pull-up technique and
then all of a sudden you're just really
really really good at pull-ups sort of
similar how if you watch a um person
who's really good at calisthenics the
way they do pull-ups man it just looks
so beautiful like how every part of your
Technique it seems like you've been
doing that for a long time well yeah I
do I do this all the time and that's how
you get good at something I don't want
you guys to just basically never do it
and then be like oh how come I only
train pull-ups once a week and I'm not
that good at them well you know kind of
answers the question
next doing the right accessories yes if
you can do sets of five especially ten
especially 15 with Pull-Ups
you can kind of just do pull-ups the the
jail yard workout you know two sets of
pull-ups two sets of try not to get
stabbed two sets of joining one of the
racial gangs I would say which ones but
I'll probably cancel for that in any
case
try Join one in of a race you don't
belong to mix it up a little any case
so yes it's possible if you can do lots
of pull-ups or if your joints are super
good at handling that sort of stress
that you can just do mostly pull-ups a
bit of assistance work and maybe not
even and just get really awesome
the reality is different it's unlikely
that someone who wanted the biggest
Squad would only squat
this is true for all sports by the way
no sport that I know of trains the sport
exclusively by playing the sport
and if the sport has pull-ups then why
would you only do pull-ups there are
intelligent assistance exercises you can
do that help you on your way they
include assisted pull-ups because you
can do higher repetitions and really
focus on technique better
weighted pull-ups which allow you to
load the pull-up much heavier and thus
there's a kind of two benefits one the
overall strength of the pull-up goes up
and two there's an insane potentiation
effect that after you are used to doing
pull-ups with weight hanging when you
take the weight off even though you're
fatigued and of course if you do taking
the weight off a few days later when
you've healed
just doing your own body feels insanely
easier and yes there is a performance
enhancement but there's also Mega
confidence enhancement which can be a
big big deal right
pull Downs rows bicep curls hammer curls
would having bigger biceps
make you better at pull-ups of course
this is part of the movement right it's
part of the move being able to hammer
curl a lot or lots of sets of 10 be able
to get you to pull more well yeah of
course right so how do you know that
from pull Downs or sorry how do you know
that from your pull-ups alone you're
getting enough bicep volume or enough
Brack volume well you might not be an
extra volume through those assistance
exercises can really fill in the gaps
and make you better so when you're
looking at improving your pull-ups think
a little bit more big picture and not
I'm only going to do pull-ups even if
your favorite calisthenics folks just do
pull-ups in the coming years the over
over time as the calisthenics Community
moves up in its scientific literacy
which all communities are bodybuildings
like dead last on that one
um you'll see more folks using some
intelligent assistance work and you'll
see more folks when they have access to
it using uh weighted equipment you know
because if you can do 10 pull-ups with
25 pounds hanging they ain't you
can't do with your own body weight it's
a really really good stuff
next
you want to progress on the rep style
now this is real Advanced for people
getting really strong at pull-ups but if
you just have the calisthenics setup
like creepy Soviet era mostly abandoned
Ukrainian playground where I guess maybe
all the best calisthenics people in the
world come from or some you know like
weird Chinese half-constructed Mega City
playground with no one's around you guys
know what I'm talking about those
YouTube videos right did you parkour and
you're like where the does that guy
live like
post-apocalyptic you know what I'm
saying Kiev or some right now like
yeah like that if you don't have
access to any weight equipment or any
weight training equipment at all you
just have a pull-up bar there is a way
to progress of course you can just add
repetitions and do RAR and all that
stuff in that screen but if you get
really really good at pulling up to your
chin at some point you add in a new
exercise a new version of pull-ups you
may still do some pull-ups to the chin
but now fresh early in your workout you
may start to do pull-ups to the
clavicles if you have an ability to
touch the bar to your clavicles in a
pull-up holy you're strong and then
the number of pull-ups you could do to
where the chin clears it starts shooting
up like crazy because this is so much
harder
and then
if you were able to do comfortable
pauses at the top for 10 plus clavicle
pull-ups which makes you unbelievable at
pull-ups you can start doing sternum
pull-ups which are insane and
that's when you touch the bar
right to your nipple line so think about
your nipples real quick close your eyes
think about your own juicy giant nipples
just bursting with whatever it is
nipples milk that's what it is and you
think about touching them shifts to the
bar like that now that's crazy and if I
see someone who can do 10 sternum
pull-ups when they turn around the Sun
goes black because their back is so
 big and regular pull-ups the
chin clearing ones oh my God they can do
like an Infinity so even if you don't
have access to a lot of equipment you
can do these three variations do the
harder ones first here's even a sample
workout you could do if you're really
 strong
two to three sets of sternum pull-ups
now you are more tired two to three sets
of clavicle pull-ups now you're more
tired two to three sets of pull-ups
where you just barely clean the chin go
home heal up your lats come back a few
days later repeat tack on a rep to every
set or wrap to every other set something
like that
you're well on your way next number six
vary the pull-up styles
yes it is possible to just do overhand
Pull-Ups for forever and experience no
joint pain and experience no staleness
to the movement like you just feel the
movements off for some reason
but it's unlikely what is more likely is
that for multiple months you'll be able
to really feel out one or two pull-up
Styles but then after you want to make a
change and that doesn't mean you have to
get away from pull-ups because pull-ups
are awesome in the sense there's so many
varieties there's wide grip there's
narrow grip there's close grip there's
underhand there's what are these called
dildo attachments parallel pull-ups or
whatever and kind of everything in
between what my recommendation is is
pick one or two of the Styles train them
like crazy for a few months until they
feel pretty stale and then replace one
or two whichever one feels most stale or
if both of them stale replace both and
go to another variant so you could do
you know a few months of training with
overhand wide and underhand pull-ups and
then those get stale you can switch to
narrow and uh dildo handle pull-ups and
then all of a sudden double dildos of
course come on now so all of a sudden
you have awesome variation but you're
just still doing pull-ups there's a huge
General strength transfer like if you're
able to do five more pull-ups than
before with this style you're gonna be
able to do very soon after starting this
again more pull-ups with that because
it's almost The Identical General
musculature and so on and so forth so
switch the Styles go go until you start
to Plateau switch them up go go go until
you start to plateau and that
essentially injects variation into your
training for all kind of perpetuity and
you get stronger and stronger and
stronger and pretty soon instead of the
bar being pulled
pulling up your body you pull the Earth
down yeah yeah that's really the goal
number seven
if you were in a position
where you can only do like less than
five pull-ups that might put you into a
little bit of a predicament because
you're not able to summate enough
training volume through pull-ups alone
to meet your body's total ability to
take volume and adapt to it and benefit
like if you had a and think about this
this works the same way with any other
situation it's just pull-ups are curious
because their body weight so here's what
I mean if you can do two pull-ups
maximum
and someone's like okay you can only
train Pull-Ups
as a first movement in your workout go
are you doing singles
a double first and then you're too tired
to do that again the rest of workouts
you do like three singles with two
minutes rest and then assistance work
but like gee whiz that's a lot of like
1rms
it would be the same as if your max
squat was 300 pounds and the only
squatting Implement you had was a bar
that's already in the rack
and it's chained in and it's complete
solid spheres that don't move weighing
275 pounds total
so yeah you can train your squat but
only with your 2rm
okay can I take it away nope can't take
the weights off that's the same logic
that people who refuse to do assistance
work as their core movement apply to the
pull-up was I just do pull-ups if
someone that you knew had that 275 pound
stapled rack situation
but they also had access to a free squat
rack with actual weights you can slide
on and off a hack squat a leg press and
so on and so forth and you're watching
them only do doubles and singles in that
crazy rack and trying to get their squad
up you'd be like you know there's all
these other machines here and you can do
sets of five to ten and do multiple sets
instead of just a few and you can
summate tons of volume great effort
great stimulus grow tons more muscle and
get way stronger come back to that
pre-loaded rack and hit sets of five
just the same thing happens with
Pull-Ups so if you can do less than five
or so pull-ups I encourage you
to do some you know maybe for some
mesocycles that you train you have
workouts in which you just do you know
mostly pull-ups to begin with a few sets
of triples or something and then you do
some other work that's totally cool but
at other times of the week what you
could do is have a workout that begins
with assisted pull-ups and over time you
decrease the weight of the assistant
you'll work out that begins with pull
Downs workouts even that begin with rows
because rows generally grow your back
really well some of your workouts might
even begin with bicep curls or hammer
curls to get that part of you strong
because it's going to contribute to your
ability to do pull-ups
generally speaking you put on the best
size in sets of five to Thirty reps and
if you can't do that in Pull-Ups
stop just doing pull-ups for size and do
the exercise you can scale down to your
strength and do those and I promise
promise promise that if you use the lap
pull down 100 pounds and you could only
do pull-ups for two reps as you work up
and eventually you can lap pull down
same rep number for 130 or 140 or 150
pounds you will be able to do more
pull-ups a lot more pull-ups versus just
taking consistent 1rm attempts not a
good idea
what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever made
get yours now
[Music]
lastly this is a huge huge tip it's kind
of weird it's out of left field but I
promise it makes sense
lose weight I mean you specifically
that's right you watching no no not the
person behind you not your cat
right not the adult films playing in the
television screen but who watches adult
films on a TV screen I wonder
in any case here's the thing
it all depends on how much you want to
be able to do more Pull-Ups
if you weigh 180 pounds and you're
carrying some excess fat no big deal
everyone you know we all love you just
the same
but if you in your heart to be able to
do more pull-ups and you say look I want
to do what it takes to do more pull-ups
short of like killing somebody
maybe even naming them is okay
losing 5 or 10 or even 20 pounds
intelligently over the course of
multiple weeks and months with
maintenance faces and all that other
stuff we talk about on the channel
can take your ability to do pull-ups and
Skyrocket the living out of it
there's the people who are the best at
doing pull-ups in this world are all
very tiny people
because their strength to body weight
ratio can be quite insane
even people who win world's strongest
man
most of them can't even do but 10
pull-ups or so because they weigh three
or four hundred pounds
now that's a bit of an extreme case but
I promise even on the margins there's a
big difference when I go I just recently
went from weighing about 250 pounds and
now I'm in the middle of a mini cut
phase I'm not weighing more like 240. my
ability to do pull-ups is notably better
notably better went from just doing plus
my body weight to attaching 10 pounds
and hitting PR's and all that crazy
stuff so if it really matters to you to
do more pull-ups maybe it's for a
military physical fitness test coming up
or something like that losing weight
while at the same time training your
pull-ups and your back hard can allow
you to improve your pull-up ability
because it's kind of like taking that
earlier example of the pre-loaded squat
spheres or something 275 pounds and
sawing off part of it now it weighs 250.
and you'll be able to squat it more even
if you're the same strength but as you
training it a little bit stronger over
time if during that time you lose a
little bit of weight over time that
separates those two lines quite clearly
in a few weeks and definitely in a few
months to where you'll just be able to
do way more pull-ups was that good you
guys is that a good enough video for you
if it wasn't come back next week and
we've got Advanced pull-up periodization
or I've never made that lecture you know
either hastily make it and deliver it
terribly or you'll just um never hear
this because Scott the video guy will
edit it out or even funnier if he just
leaves it in the next week you're
checking and I I disappointed you
like I did my own son did you guys know
I have a son yeah it's earlier marriage
and um I just wasn't proud of it and
while I love him in theory I just
I don't ever want to see his face I hope
he doesn't see this because that would
be up to here I'll see you guys
next time
son