you want big upper outer lats how many
pull-ups can you do if it's more than 10
how many weighted pull-ups can you do
how heavy is the weight of course always
a strict technique show me a guy who can
do weighted Pull-Ups for pretty High
Reps with a lot of weight I'll show you
a guy with probably really big lats it's
not rocket science another thing is
straight arm pulling so lat prayers are
an excellent idea to Target the upper
and outer lats you can of course do any
kind of machine variant of that pull
over it's also awesome you can keep
enrolling and you probably should but uh
I would put rowing later in the session
generally speaking especially for the
upper outer lats vertical pulling and
lat prayers just Target the upper outer
lats better than rows do rows can
absolutely Target the lats totally well
but because they don't allow that top
stretch and anytime you stop with the
row it's here it's not up here there's a
limit to how much rows can help rows are
really good for the rest of your back
but for upper outer lats I mean G whiz
you know vertical pulling and lap
prayers are unlikely to be