alright hey guys today I want to take a
few minutes just to talk about something
that seems to be a source of frustration
for a lot of dieters and coaches as well
and that is the stress associated with
taking regular body weight measurements
and my main point in making this video
is going to be that stressing about each
and every weigh-in doesn't do anything
positive for anyone and it's really not
a good idea in that it can actually be
counterproductive to your weight loss
goals in some cases it kind of reminds
me of people who stress so much about
getting to sleep that it actually
prevents them from falling asleep and a
similar comparison was drawn by Henry
David Thoreau when he said happiness is
like a butterfly the more you chase it
the more it will elude you but if you're
true if you turn your attention to other
things it will come and sit softly on
your shoulder before I get into the
specifics of this particular issue I do
want to outline why it is that coaches
get their clients to weigh in to begin
with I mean if at the end of the day all
that really matters is how your how you
look if your goal is to get on stage or
how you feel if you're trying to lose
weight for personal reasons then why
bother taking body weight measurements
anyway and there may be something to be
said for this approach I know several
successful bodybuilders who simply just
go by the mirror and they don't bother
weighing in at all and the first time
that they'll weigh in through the course
of their cut will be at the actual
competition that they're competing in at
the weigh-ins and I am actually
sympathetic to this approach in some
situations and I can see its utility for
example if you're the type of
we'll look in the mirror and think that
you're looking much leaner that day and
then you go and step on the scale and it
just completely ruins your day then
you're probably placing the emphasis on
the wrong tool there but the main reason
why I get weigh-ins from my clients is
simply to collect data points and to
track a general trend so let's take a
look at this graph you can see that
clearly there are peaks and valleys on
the graph but the general trend is
downward and it's clear that it would be
futile and short-sighted to stress over
the transient fluctuations on this graph
this truly is an example of failing to
see the forest for the trees I would
like to add that this is the type of
weight loss that you'll see more often
in male dieters in female dieters there
seems to be more of a pattern more akin
to that of stairs where the weight loss
can stall and then just take right off
almost out of nowhere and as a side note
it can be extremely discouraging if you
just so happen to start a diet at the
beginning of a plateau and sometimes
people can be on a cut for several weeks
or even as much as a month or two and
see no actual weight loss this isn't
super common but I'm just saying it to
say that it is relatively normal and if
you do happen to find yourself in this
situation you shouldn't give up on your
diet just yet because the laws of energy
balance will always come out on top in
the end I do also think that for this
reason it may be useful or more
practical to take monthly wanes and
compare them to one another in some
cases for women rather than looking at
their lands on a week to week basis in
philosophy there's a form of argument
called the reductio ad absurdum in which
a statement is shown to be true by
demonstrating that it's denial leads to
a contradiction so let's apply it to
this situation here let's say that we
have a dieter who weighed in one week
and they were up three pounds and
they're stressed out because they think
that they've gained three pounds of fact
well in order for them to have actually
and three pounds of fat tissue it would
mean that they would have had to have
eaten an excess of 3,600 which is the
number of calories in a pound of fat
times three for three pounds of fat
which is over 10,000 calories in excess
so that's over what they would have
eaten anyway in one week and that also
assumes that it was all stored as fat so
none of it was stored as glycogen none
of it was used as fuel it was just all
shuttled directly into the fat cell so
clearly this is absurd so it would be
wrong to think that you've gained three
pounds of fat in one week if you didn't
cheat on your diet it would be much more
rational to think that well this must be
water or something else that's going on
there I'll finish out this video by
simply just listing a bunch of possible
reasons that could cause you to gain
weight or go up on the scale without
having actually gained fat in fact it
seems very unlikely that you would have
gained any significant amount of fat so
they are water-retention from a bunch of
different possible sources it could be
menstrual cycles as I mentioned earlier
large spikes in sodium intake stress or
lack of sleep or water retention from
new drugs or medication could also be
from food content still sitting in your
gut from a previous day so the bottom
line is that if you're up on the scale
one day or one week it isn't a big deal
it's the overall general trend that
matters the individual weigh-ins are
just data points on that overall trend
and furthermore if you are up on the
scale realize how silly it is to think
that a significant amount of that weight
is actually fat it's much more likely
that it's water which generally comes
back out once the factor causing the
water retention is brought back to
normal and just to make sure that
all my bases in this video I want to
clarify that weight loss does frequently
stall on a cut and this is a different
animal altogether I am strictly speaking
on the random fluctuations that you see
on the overall trend but a prolonged
stall is something that should be dealt
with and I'll leave that between the
individual coach and their client you
guys I really hope that that video was
helpful if you learned anything please
do like the video and don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already thank
you for watching
you