bro I literally got alopecia from that
 damn being this young and taking
random drugs random dosing schedules is
exactly as chaotic as it sounds
like that
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I'm an exercise and sports
science professor at Lehman College and
the co-creator of the RP hypertrophy app
the trend twins I have a video on well
drugs maybe try and even definitely
anabolics let us appraise their
knowledge and see what kind of grade
they score on the Dr Mike's scale of do
you know things and how well
let's get to it today we're going to be
talking about what it's like to walk
around with a test of five men hey I got
the test of Ten Men I was born and
raised in New Jersey where are these
guys from they look sort of Italian I'm
from the Metro Detroit area maybe
they're Chaldean I don't know like 10
men to army army with the height of one
man with a width of Fuller
hopping on steroids it's a lot like you
get a fast car here you know she comes
stock pretty fast but you want to add
some horsepower to that baby
this is the Broadway ever I love it
I'm here for it all day long
car analogy which you guys know I love
see we want to mug in the gym and we
want to mug on the way to the gym MOG
male of the group derived from amog
alpha male of the group that is an
attitude in which you are the
superlative you are the Omega wolf you
are in charge and you have a lot of
confidence and if you want to have a lot
of confidence in the gym and for other
males of your generational age to be
impressed with your level of confidence
and really feel your swag I assume the
sequence here is going to be be jacked
and be on tons of steroids so you can
feel like a confident person there are
certainly other ways to getting that but
this is sure one of them the
absolute machine the Menace in the gym
and a menace on the road krn's yelling
at me Aaron's getting mad at me because
I'm taking my shirt off I'm looking like
a sick bastard double buy okay so we're
in the gym now to make Caucasian women
in their 40s upset Karen's excellent and
on the road he's also a menace which I
assume he means he's encouraging
dangerous driving so far the trend twins
seem like just Reckless guys oh my God
they're kind of dangerous I kind of want
to be around them a lot not in their
gang but like you know just kind of like
hey hey Joey he's like hey I know you
hey whoa like Greece the whole movie let
me tell you bro if you're gonna take
stay words you better have some insane
patience because me and Mikey do not and
we just rage I have zero patience these
guys are so honest I love it
they're like hey look you want to take
steroids you need patience which I don't
have and they say they rage a lot
they're also I assume about 20 years old
that's and and my scale about five years
too young to be doing steroids or public
service announcement if you're in your
teens or 20s in your early 20s don't do
steroids you got a lot of national gains
up ahead all kinds of really crazy
downsides of steroids that probably make
you less intelligent over time that's
fun and they destroy your health and
they make you angry and anxious and
prone to bad decision making it's all
good stuff if the trade-off is worth it
but up until you're about 25 years old
you can make such crazy native gains and
your brain is still maturing I wouldn't
recommend you do steroids bad idea but
if you do have patience which is
absolutely great advice and these guys I
seemingly don't have it what I don't
have impatience I make up for
biceps
any inconvenience I'm going to the gym
I'm getting a pump if you don't agree
with me like I'm gonna punch you in your
face if you don't agree with me I'm
gonna punch you in your face
yeah that definitely how you can feel on
steroids sometimes but don't do that
because there's a place for people to
punch people in the face when they don't
agree it's called jail and uh you don't
want to go to jail it's a bad time the
first thing about steroids is you
honestly have to be realistic with
yourself bro if you think that you're
gonna just randomly spawn in muscle
that's not how this works at all
brother true steroids do work slowly
they just magnify how much gain you're
getting from sleeping and eating and
training they don't magically put muscle
on your body facts I love it thanks guys
for letting us know it takes time
anything that that's worth it takes time
dedication this just doesn't happen
over night it sure doesn't
happen over night and also
overnight two different concepts and
it's steroids is like the American dream
okay it's all fun and games until you
got to pay taxes is that the American
dream it's all fun and games until you
have to pay taxes I think if you budget
appropriately you can see that coming
he's going to say there's downsides to
steroids I hope let's find out and those
taxes nutsack your liver your organs
respect that's all true we've done our
time daddy done our time it sounds like
prison I did my time natural
four years up in San Quentin terrible we
train actually for eight years man eight
years of natural training is good but if
you started when you were 11 or 12 you
still shouldn't be using steroids when
you're like 20. I don't know how all
these guys are
I I have Natty acquire accolades okay
that's a good Flex hey remember when
Mikey was Natty some guy in the back of
the Gym's like yeah it was a total freak
that guy scared the out of me hey
one time he pulled the knife to my face
and he was like Oh Daddy you understand
and I was like well of course you are
buddy hey it changes your body
composition you mod a car you go for 500
horsepower and you and then you're
getting a thousand I love it guys the
gains aren't instant but you go from 500
horsepower to a thousand horsepower just
by buying a new car yeah which one of
those analogies is more accurate I
wonder most of the cars stays the same
there's a few components that are
changing in our bodies when you take
gear
yes your hormones do change when you
take extra hormones
them are never gonna be the same
you may be PCT you probably will not
have the same uh hormone levels as you
had the more you got them if you do PCT
there's a very high probability that
you'll have the identical hormone levels
before you hopped on so that's actually
not true and honestly taking steroids is
kind of like cyberpunk you know how when
they added in like all that cyberware
and they go into cyber psychosis
handle the like power that's how
steroids are I'm not gonna lie to you of
course everyone knows about cyber
psychosis I live in that state daily the
mental side effects they're all real
like they're all got cyber psychosis
yeah it can manic like a mother mental
side effects are all real thanks fellas
for letting us know for real that's
that's an important thing you're so
dedicated I was already a hard worker I
had the grind dedication for this
and then you add on all the other
that's going to take it to the next
level it's like you're hyper focused bro
yeah you got the blinders you're you've
got tunnel vision all you can see is a
 goal I mean
huh steroids who make things more
intense in your head I don't know if
they improve your focus as much as the
guys are saying then again I have never
been on that much track before remain
humble I try and uh recognize
I can't even process what Mikey's saying
he's all over the place that's not wrong
steroids do occasionally cause you to be
all over the place like he said
psychosis Mania my ass cheek hurts oh
man a little about the process of taking
steroids bro it is so scary one the
that you think you're getting bro like
it's all watered down yeah you don't
really know what you're getting ever for
sure since the 70s this is not
farmer great anymore I mean how much can
I say here without laying my cards out
on the table you can get farmer grade
gear
it's not that hard but uh young fellas
like themselves they learn some good
lessons doing bathtub so I won't
get in their way it could be oils it
could be random in there like yeah
listen this is great advice if you're
just buying random steroids from random
guy at the gym if you know what you're
getting for sure they're crazy
a lot of a lot the early beginnings of
steroids you literally had to learn
about it through other people's
experiences it's like a science
experience you learn from Reddit yeah
got a lot of Reddit seriously I want to
hop on you have to go through like
brother you get a coach great advice you
if you're going to use antibiotics if
they're legal in your jurisdiction if
you're over the age of 25 if you've made
all right trade-offs and choices doing
it with a coach and ideally with medical
supervision is absolutely the way to go
if you just read about some stuff on
Reddit and you take some pills you got
shipped from India three weeks ago you
know it could go very well for you or
could go not very well and I would not
suggest steroids to anyone unless you
want to be if you want to take your
to the next level you already have your
training your diet together absolutely
great advice don't use steroids until
you have your training and your diet and
everything really squared away because
then for that super boost you're in the
right position to accept it but if
you're just using steroids to get to
some place you actually successfully get
to just looking like you lift and then
people are like oh well you're drug free
you have so much ahead of you and you're
like well actually no I'm already on
steroids instead of putting in the
effort on food on quality training and
on rest and relaxation I put it into
drugs first bad idea let me tell you
guys about the RP hypertrophy app with
over 28 preset programs already in the
app you could choose to make your own
you could modify an existing program or
you could just run the programs exactly
as they were written by me personally
this app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
and me and Chris we're young dudes so
it's Chris and Mikey hey Chris hey Mikey
whoa we're young we're young guys we're
22 years old 22 years old too early for
steroids all right if you watch your old
videos you think okay yeah these guys
look like they're 20. now I look like
I'm 25. I mean you do per se
bro oh we got beef we failed in
time and time again and we're just
trying to get it right bro and we just
don't want people to go through that you
know even on prep we're going through
failures and you know it's just a
learning process prep are they doing a
Bobby delay show or a powerlifting neat
dude one time I looked up the estrogen
blocker I was taking bodybuilding show I
think fresher Locker it's a breast
cancer treatment
that's all up this is guys
I'm taking breast cancer treatment so I
don't get rest
I thought I was supposed to take that
 like you know every day you're
supposed to take it once and twice a
week bro I literally got alopecia from
that damn
being this young and taking random drugs
random dosing schedules is exactly as
chaotic as it sounds
that get a coach folks and and these
guys are great because they're saying
don't do this get a coach because that's
okay every day like my hair started
falling out we got a lot of hair I left
as far as I can tell big part of why
we're talking about this now is because
like we have the experience one now and
I feel like it's our duty and now we
have a whole Healthcare team damn they
have a healthcare team tick tock's doing
you good if you guys are familiar with
more plates more dates of course more
plays more dates who isn't he's like the
most humble like guy on the
internet is that really true I wonder
he's literally The Godfather of steroids
just is broken down every little bit
about him he is the Godfather of
steroids folks Google Dan Duchene and
about 20 other people I'm way before
that but lest I digress saying unkind
things I will continue he has his parent
company called Merrick health and
they've started sponsoring us because
through this prep because we knew we
were going to hop on more gear came did
our blood work before we hopped on more
they literally came to the house well
what can I say as far as leading by
example this is of course terrible
they're way too young to be using
they've made all the mistakes using as
far as lessons they got from it now
they're in contact with Merrick Health
to take care of their health have a team
around them doing things in a logical
Manner and knowing that they had done
some stupid things in the past and
teaching the folks about it I I largely
approve this is quite good so um I'll
say this since I can't really rate this
video it's better that they made this
video
than if they hadn't that's approval
enough for me all right see you guys
next time
[Music]