thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting
we're gonna be looking at detox diets
I'm so basically the idea that over the
course of time our bodies accumulate
toxins which cause us to become fat or
otherwise unhealthy now so every now and
then it's a good idea to run some sort
of detoxification diet to help flush
these toxins out now I'll just say from
the outset that I'm not personally a
huge fan of detox diets and what I'd
like to do here is quickly go through
one of my favorite science-based
medicine articles on this topic which is
one of my favorite resources for general
skeptic and science-based information
and then we'll take a quick look at
whether there's any hint of truth to any
of this based on the most recent
peer-reviewed scientific literature um
okay so here's the article I was written
by dr. Steven novella it was a clinical
neurologist at Yale University School of
Medicine now so first he links to a 2016
case report from the British Medical
Journal which tells the story of a 47
year old woman who has showed up to the
hospital having seizures due to
euvolemic hyponatremia secondary to
polydipsia that's basically her detox
plan had her drinking a ton of water
which according to dr. novella can
sometimes be as high as 60 liters which
is insane now but anyway if you drink
more water than you need you run the
risk of developing hyponatremia which is
basically just a very low level of
sodium in the blood
so dr. novella explains how this happens
if you drink too much water you can
overwhelm your kidneys and get
hyponatremia which can then result in
delirium seizures and brain damage if
you try to correct the low sodium too
quickly so the sort of detox that has
you drinking
way more water than you feel like you
need is actually quite dangerous and
totally unnecessary because pretty much
all healthy adults can simply use thirst
as a guide for hydration and drinking
more water than you need to satisfy your
thirst won't do anything extra for your
health or fat loss now in a linked
article here from pharmacist Scott
Guevara there are three solid strikes
against detox diets that I'd like to
quickly highlight the first pretty much
says that no detox advocate really ever
says what these toxins actually are I'm
so depending on who you
you may hear some combination of food
additives salt meat fluoride
prescription drugs etc but the culprit
is always nonspecific so detox diets
never name the actual toxins that they
remove because they've never been shown
to remove any toxins now if there was a
specific claim about a specific toxin
that the detox diet was supposed to
remove then that's something that we
could investigate with an actual
scientific study but since the claims
are always so nonspecific it allows
these detox plans to stay outside the
purview of actual science while still
sounding somewhat sciency to the general
public
now the second strike here kind of says
two things so first the idea that
chemicals aren't bad by default because
everything is made up of chemicals air
is chemicals food is chemicals I guess
food and air are made up of chemicals
drugs or chemicals and so forth and then
secondly the idea that when it comes to
things that are actually harmful our
bodies have already evolved a very
complex and effective system of
Defense's for their removal norm so the
skin kidneys lymphatic system GI system
and the liver already make up an
astoundingly complex and sophisticated
detoxification system and also the idea
that the liver and kidneys act like
filters where toxins are sort of held
until they're cleaned out just isn't
accurate physiologically now the liver
converts toxic substances into other
substances which are then eliminated and
bile or urine so these systems are self
cleansing and don't seem to need any
help from detox diets now the third and
final strike against the detox diet
comes from a pretty cool paper it was
published in the Journal of Human
Nutrition and Dietetics and looked at a
bunch of popular commercial detox diets
including dr. Oz's weekend cleanse and
the lemon detox diet and pulling all of
it together they basically concluded
that at present there's no compelling
evidence to support the use of detox
diets for weight management or toxin
elimination and that given the costs and
health risks they should be discouraged
by health professionals now all that
isn't to say there aren't certain
chemicals to be worried about things
like persistent organic pollutants or
pops4
in adipose
issue because they're highly lipophilic
or fat loving and then can take years to
break down now but these things also
tend to be very highly regulated the
European Union USA and Australia have
been steadily banning pops4 70s and also
certain heavy metals like arsenic and
Mercury can be toxic to humans at low
doses now but these are also generally
heavily regulated in developed countries
so for example in the case of mercury
most people have detectable levels
although these levels are generally not
sufficiently high enough to cause
adverse health effects and as a result
it seems unlikely that the average
person would benefit greatly from metal
detoxification now what I personally
found to be the most interesting and all
of this was how some new research might
actually help inform us on how to make a
sort of science-based
detox diet in the future so according to
this paper if anything should qualify as
a candidate for actually benefiting from
a dietary detox it would be either pops4
sistent organic pollutants which have
been used in pesticides and electrical
equipment in the past but have been
banned since the 70s or heavy metals
like lead and Mercury because unlike
nearly everything else these compounds
are actually not easily filtered out by
the liver and kidneys and like I said
can accumulate in fat tissue over time
the instead said that although there is
currently no evidence to support the use
of commercial detox diets for removing
toxic substances there may be certain
nutritional components that possess
detoxification properties and then they
laid those components out in this table
here so this is where it actually starts
to get a bit complicated and I think
it's worth mentioning that most of these
things have only been tested in animals
but just looking here at citrus pectin
for example now this is interesting
because this is a substance you can find
in the peel of citrus fruits and it's a
natural chelating agent which means it
might be helpful for eliminating heavy
metals like lead and then I found this
part really interesting the classic fat
substitute olestra now which I've
actually tried in fat free potato chips
in the States because it's banned here
in Canada may in fact be able to absorb
PCBs and eliminate them in the feces but
remember even though PCB contaminated
equipment still exists
were banned from production in the 70s
and I don't think we should get our
hopes up for olestra as a detox diet
ingredient since it has its own string
of health concerns and like I said it's
banned here in Canada and in the EU um
so again while this is all very
interesting and may point toward a
subject for future research I think
there are still a ton of gaps to be
filled in here before we're ready for a
true toxin elimination plan that's
actually based on legitimate scientific
evidence I think the authors of this
paper also nailed it when it comes to
detox diets and weight loss although it
is plausible that energy restricted
detox diets are able to produce
short-term weight loss it's unclear
whether they're useful for maintaining a
healthy weight in the long term there's
a vast range of alternative diets that
contain adequate protein and
micronutrient levels at the same time as
facilitating weight loss which begs the
question of whether detox diets have any
utility at all so bringing this full
circle I would say that detox diets have
proven to be harmful and dangerous in
multiple case reports and although there
may be some future promise and a few
specific food compounds that may
selectively target specific toxins no
robust scientific evidence has shown any
popular detox diets to actually be
effective at doing this and when it
comes to weight loss I think you'd be
much better off just focusing on a more
sustainable approach to try to pick a
diet that you can actually stick to over
the long term and ideally try to find
one that includes a variety of
nutrient-rich foods with a special
attention to more moderate caloric
deficit that's sustained over time and
adequate protein intake and with all
that said I would say the idea that
detox diets actually work is busted they
not only lack scientific backing but it
could also cause serious harm so I think
that as of now the best advice is to
simply avoid them altogether
I'm surprised as usual I'll have all of
the sources and recommended reading
linked in the description box below and
before we go I want to give a huge thank
you to Squarespace for sponsoring
another mythbuster Monday video I'm
since launching my new push-pull legs
and women's specialization programs last
week I've been using Squarespace every
day to update my products and check
analytics and it's actually been the
most simple process for me to do
especially when it comes to running the
online store component I'm so
Squarespace definitely comes highly
recommended and I've actually been using
Squarespace for the last been going on
four years now and they have tons of
beautiful designer custom templates
available and great 24-hour customer
support that which I always find to be
really helpful so if you guys want to
get started with making your own website
or running your own online store you can
go to Squarespace com forward slash
Nippert and that will save you 10% off
your first purchase Thank You
Squarespace for sponsoring the video
thank you guys so much for watching I
don't forget to leave me a like and
subscribe if you haven't already and
I've got a new training blog on the way
next Monday so I'll see you guys all
here then