I'm trying to get laid I got one shot at
the title I want one line to tell these
hoes Sam what what are we saying to
these ladies honestly I think you could
get a couple of them coming your way if
you just say you could give him a
picture with me with you I be like I get
you in a Sam solic photo like who's that
like God I'm awesome I'm going to do
that next we have a lot of viewers that
have been together a while what are you
doing to spice up the bedroom good I
know stereotypes are old and wrong but
what does the average pedophile look
like one of these people is Sam Suk the
other one is not vote in the comments
right now who's who I don't know it's
[Music]
him what did you ask the barber for top
two or three tips how to get that
you kind of you got to remain eye
contact like hi my name's Mich I love
you yeah yeah yeah