it's cool to talk about like exactly the
optimal amount when Mike mener and his
boys get on that shit most people like
yes yes exactly the optimal yes yeah and
then they're expecting like so what is
it like it's just one set it's whatever
Dorian did and it's like what the but
how excuse me how how how do you know
that and they just turns out they don't
they just kind of fucking made it
up hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization Mike mener I
don't know a lot about Mike mener I
think he had a mustache Scott the video
guy didn't he wear really thick rimmed
glasses yeah yeah short shorts short
shorts and to me that's good enough
because that's Style Style Style and
gets you wet wet wet at least in the 80s
and also again today because the 80s are
making a comeback which I think is great
but IRL Mr Mike
mener he was a very good Pro bodybuilder
an Olympian which is much more than I
can say for myself in the 1980s he
competed against Arnold among others and
arguably looked a little better than
Arnold at uh at least one
competition he adopted Arthur Jones hit
high-intensity training
model and trained and coached others in
that model or his own version called
heavy duty training which is very very
similar in the grand scheme and he was
really hit and heavy duty he was that
philosophy's biggest proponent and so
now Mr Mike mener who is deceased
unfortunately is ex is having a postumus
blooming second renaissance renaissance
where did I see that
name and so that's really cool because
it's getting a lot of attention and he's
got a lot of wise shit to
say and some stuff to say that's like
maybe doesn't make as much sense as it
could so we're gonna talk about quickly
what high-intensity training really is
and we've got other videos about it too
and then we are going to take some Mike
mener
quotes break them down see what's really
good about them see what's maybe not so
great and then try to kind of develop a
picture of what is it that you could get
out of Mike mencer's philosophy and
teachings and what maybe you can sort of
leave on the table for the dogs to eat
you take all the Mike mener chaff and
you just do this and you have the hounds
below the table
like Jesus Christ are those my dogs the
fuck is going on here
anyway what is high-intensity
training hit
it's a great
acronym Scott didn't you have a
misunderstanding with the law that no
never
mind the lip the court date hasn't come
through
yet well we got him bonded out he's here
doing videos so very few sets per muscle
per session now here's the
thing quick uh
disclaimer
there's a lot
of
goalpost stuff logical fallacies going
on when you try to pin down what hit is
to people there's a lot of mtin Bailey
fallacy going on where like it's one
thing but that that's another and so in
good faith what I'm going to try to do
here is Define the hit philosophy in the
most broad but still inclusive
terms so it's like if I was talking
about democracy I wouldn't just say like
here's democracy it's all about America
you're like but don't other countries
have democracies at least a little bit
different a Sher America Western Europe
and the fre countries of Asia okay so
now that's pretty representative
democracy kind of like that so there's a
couple different ways to skin the hit
cat Jesus Christ he's still alive that's
not funny come on it's a little funny
it's pretty funny but we'll
stop a couple of grand observations
about what the heavy duty hit slash
Arthur Jones Mike mener philosophy
really is at its core of
training and if you think think I'm
being too General please tell me in the
comments if you think I'm being oddly
specific and not General enough please
do tell but this is my sort of best
effort and by the way I used to train
like this my first Jesus I don't know
something like my first five years of
training and I loved it and so I'm not
biased against it but with a little
clarity through time and lots of
Education and Research I can sort of see
the pluses and minuses I think at least
this is my best attempt to teach you
guys something just awkward for me to be
seen as a teacher by the way if you go
to the Google machine you type in My
First Sex Teacher no don't do that don't
do that if you're at
work Scott you doing it
now typeing away
damn what is hit high intensity training
Cate so categorized by the following
three things one there are very few sets
per muscle per session some hit
Advocates will say just one set per
muscle per session that's right you got
legs it's a set of leg press for quads
that's it one set other hit Advocates
are well there's a couple warm-up sets
that have some kind of Effect one very
working set very top set some people do
two or three top sets even uh derivative
programs um like uh dog crap which is a
real name of a program I know it sounds
kind of absurd but it's actually a very
good program and then Dorian Yates who
came out of this lineage uh similar
programs is just a little bit different
but low volume we're not talking about
showing up to the gym and doing 20
fucking sets of quads there is no
high-intensity is program that looks
like that we're talking about
like two three maybe five sets for
muscle is like the limit of what you
could ideologically sequester into hit
or people are still like okay fine
you're doing it justice next all working
sets
generally are to failure or even Beyond
so if someone says they they train with
hit style they love Arthur Jones they
like Dorian Yates they like Mike mener
Dante trudell Etc and then you watch
them do a work set where they're like
and rack didn't you have like three more
and they're like yeah didn't you say you
did hit training they're like no you
fucking don't you
lying so one of the biggest things about
high-intensity training is almost
everyone who's even tangentially related
to it as prescribed is generally
speaking they like to grind a failure
and sometimes Beyond which means what
drop sets for STS super sets the whole
fucking thing and lastly the third
feature of hit we got first feature is
very few sets per muscle procession
second feature is all work sets
generally to failure or Beyond and the
third is low
frequency usually that means training
every muscle group once a week and very
rarely any more than that so again if
you see someone grinding every set to
failure all right they only did four
sets for the workout for like biceps
okay but they do biceps three or four
days a week could that be a hit
derivative yes is it
really living up to that model the true
inspiration if hit was some kind of
zombie the made of Arthur Jones and Mike
mener and dorian's still alive why not
part of his face and there
you animate it if you show it a picture
of someone
doing a workout will it
[Music]
go friend or will it be like it rips the
mirror and fucking the camera and it's
out of the lab and you have to put it
down with nukes the usual so if you're
doing the same muscle multiple times a
week the hit amalgam monster it's
probably going to kill you or try um if
you're doing a muscle once a week if
you're doing all work sets to failure
Beyond if you are doing very few sets
per session per
muscle the hit monster will probably
give you a hug and you give it a flower
and it's like rose you're like oh God
I'm so glad you're here finally Mr hit
monster my only
friend so now that we all on the same
page more or less let me know in the
comments if you disagree I'll just block
you I don't like people disagreeing with
me
ever now that we know what hit generally
is what I did next will shock you hey
Scott the video guy can we do that for a
thumbnail title what Dr Mike does next
will shock you and it's just a picture
of like Mike mener because that's what
fucks on the internet today what the
fuck are these videos even about I asked
chat GPT now hold up before you start
talking that shit chat gbt is probably
smarter than you it's just true also
it's chat G pt4 cuz your boy pays for
that shit so it's that latest model baby
so it knows things I asked chat PT to
find me 10 Mike mener quotes that it
thought were uh some combination of
popular quotes and controversial
quotes just feeding the YouTube
algorithm here and I'm going to take a
look at each one of these 10 quotes and
try to see where it does good things the
light and then try to see where maybe it
says some things that we're not so
willing to say are the truest things in
the world pluses and minuses like the
whole world that's what my mom used to
say lot of minuses in my
childhood anyway Mike mener quote number
one quote any exercise carried on beyond
the least amount required to stimulate
an optimal increase is not merely a
waste of effort it is actually highly
counterproductive okay dope let's talk
about the good stuff
first doing too much effort too much
training is actually bad for your gains
so you got I love the sociological
reality you have
two just total fucking idiots at the
gym and they look the same Stringer
weird haircut they're curling with
sunglasses on
why Bros I'm talking about some bro like
motherfucker can barely read and shit
but he's at the gym and he likes to say
shit and you got two sides of that
coin one guy's like there's no such
thing as overtraining bro it's all
fucking mental just got to get after it
I eat 30 F 30 fucking sets of biceps and
after that I do five more sets you're
like wouldn't that be 35 he's like no
it's a fucking pussy way of thinking
about it okay fine two notations and
then the other guy is a super hit guy so
anything over one set is a fucking
insane proposition you're not working
hard enough in that one set if you need
another one you just see it's like motha
versus Godzilla clashes and the
stupidity Rays shoot at each other in
any case it turns out that yes there's a
huge good point here against Mr high
volume bro your adaptive systems the
ones that make you better actually
compete for some of the same resources
with the systems that help you recover
okay so it's like if I've used this
analogy before if an office building
gets a little bit fucked up by some
strong winds you have plenty of money in
the fund to buy new furniture and new
desks and new upholstering all that
stuff but if it's a tornado and it rips
half the fucking building apart you
ain't getting new shit so much as you
can barely replace the old shit the Body
Works in much the same way if you
stimulate it very hard but give it some
room to adapt it grows if you go all the
fucking way just milk every single
little ounce of ability out of your
muscles and drain the fuck out of
him there's not much left for making
gains your body's like holy shit this is
so fucked up I just got to kind of clean
this up as best I can and it'll get you
just back to where you used to be which
sucks you do not go into the gym to
spill your fucking blood and guts all
over the floor hopefully not literally
but leg day is a thing in order to just
get back to where you got and you can do
that if you go too hard
100% if you crush yourself way past the
point of Maximum gains which is call the
maximum adaptive
volume you just need more time and
resources to heal which either means the
resources are misspent healing you
versus growing you or if you can heal
and then grow and then Super compensate
you can't do that as often because it
takes so goddamn long to heal your ass
up like if you do four sets of quads you
can train quads twice a week and they
grow real well if you do eight sets of
quads I'm talking about hard hard you
might only be able to train once a week
but then the last two sets are kind of
like you're wasting your time anyway and
it causes so much damage it's not even a
whole lot of growth so ends up being
that four sets twice a week is usually
better than eight sets once a week or
something to that effect so it's
absolutely true that just doing extra
effort is fucking stupid and Mike mener
was 100 100% right about
this the bad now guys please forgive me
in advance I'm trying to make sure I get
a little bit of good a little bit bad
with each one of these generally
speaking I think this quote is fucking
baller uh so I'm going to be pedantic
occasion
what would I be if I wasn't a professor
and dare I say also a
Joo you and how's that funny to you
Scott every every fucking thing I say
just got little white supremacy in it
this motherfucker laughing his ass
off yeah sure you people can't fucking
spell I could spell potato though yeah
yeah I bet if I give you the same letter
three times in a row close to the letter
L see see how loud he's laughing no we
don't we don't got to cut that people
can figure that shit out guys I'm good
I'm a good person Scott the video guy's
a bad guy in any
case we got to keep that
in all right here's me being pedantic so
don't take this too seriously but but
nonetheless it's technically
true he says the least amount of effort
required to stimulate an optimal
increase there is a problem with
that there is no such thing as the least
am of effort required to do the optimal
there is just the effort required to do
the optimal why is it least you could
say it's the most amount of effort
required to do the optimal that could
probably be the same number because the
way that normal distributions work in
biology is generally it's a curve with a
distinct peakish area and when you get
to that Peak it's just a certain optimal
out for example Mr Jeff Nipper kind of
did his own review of the literature a
little while back and this is a little
tiny bit dated but it's mostly correct
and he found that per session per muscle
is saying nothing about how many
sessions you do a week whether it's one
two three or six or whatever roughly the
maximum adaptive volume that you do the
best gains you're likely to have on
average on average is like six sets per
muscle what the fuck would the minimum
amount to get to six sets be
conceptually it just makes no fuck sense
it's six it's not less it's not more
it's just six it's an apex so it's just
one point and I think there are more
intellectual ways if it's a very flat
distribution to say the least is better
and that's totally true so I do have
love for that but I also think this
phrasing betrays his bias Mike mencer's
bias towards minimalism because he was
absolutely biased towards doing less and
there's not a goddamn thing wrong with
that on principle well other than the
bias part but it's totally cool to have
a proclivity to believe a certain way
which just got to be a fact that we call
that out so I think it's one of those
like um if you start to think a lot like
Mike menser and you're trying to think
logically at some point the roads are
going to diverge a little bit because
not everyone was right about shit me
included but she me by a long shot you
guys should have seen my first
relationship I wrong about a lot of
stuff I'm just kidding I've never had a
first relationship so in the end
intellectually it's much more accurate
to consider an optimal dose not a
minimum optimal there may be no such
thing so all right that's quote number
one quote number
two quote in order to leave the
orchestra you must first turn your back
to the
crowd um Scott F gu I was inclined to
believe that people that did Orchestra
in middle school and high school were
just people that weren't having
sex tell me I'm
wrong true it's true facts facts dem's
facts people who played an instrument in
high school two things stay calm and
feel free to call the friends that you
don't have to cry about it I'm joking I
was actually of a lower sociological
tier than people that played instruments
because I didn't have the talent nor my
parents the money to get an instrument
so I was in choir how many of you guys
were in choir against your will in
elementary and middle school let me know
in the comments Scott were you did you
sing no what did you do in middle school
yeah like in music class oh I don't
remember you were high on marijuana I
was in the Jazz Band oh no way did you
uh slay in middle school I don't
know you I assume you being Mr gigachad
slayed every fucking conceivable waking
hour of your
life this is the modesty voice he puts
on anyway all right so in order to Le
the orchestra you must first turn your
back on the crowd here's the good part
of that
quote you can't do your best work if you
let nay sing or or group think or crowd
Madness get to you and that's
100% sometimes a lot of people most
people will say shit that's just fucking
wrong just wrong it was categorically
like not to put too fine a point on it
but so like fuck it I'll just say it and
I know altright people get at me in the
comments there's plenty of mean things
to say about every race
but Hitler at one point said something
like you're like nobody's going to beat
a properly trained white
athlete Jesse Owens ran right through
that motherfucker it is just it's an
absurd statement so why a fuck would you
ever say it but a lot of people thought
of the time most Germans are I guess of
course absolutely if someone there was
like what the fuck you guys ever seen
black people do Sports so you out of
your fucking mind the answer is no one
had so in any case people generally have
views at various points about plenty of
woke shit that makes no goddamn sense
we're not allowed to say it cuz we don't
want to get canceled so a lot of times
if you just follow
along the the flow goes Downstream and
that's not good and many innovators are
just that they are innovators because
they went their own way and that's a
beautiful thing that's super fucking
true that's the good stuff what's the
bad stuff first the crowd can have a lot
of really smart things to tell
you if you go on your social media and
like hey guys any recommendations for
good Netflix shows you're going to get a
lot of good stuff I then you're going to
get a lot of shit too hey I've got a
show it's called Fuck kill yourself Dr
Mike welome thank you excellent like but
a lot of times people have absolutely
great advice and the wisdom of crowds is
a real thing and if you survey loads of
responses loads of opinions learn from
as many people as you can you get a
crapload of aggregate data each with
slightly different views of the world
and if you're good at integrating that
data you can generate unbelievable
amounts of wisdom not going your own way
but going Mega with the crowd just
intelligently with the
crowd in a certain sense uh Mike mener
turned his back on a lot of his critics
at the time and he might have been
better served turning his back to them a
little bit more often to hear what they
have to say because that would have
improved his own
philosophy turning your back to the
crowd guarantees you're going to conduct
the orchestra until until they're like
sir what the fuck are you doing can you
put those fucking reads down and we're
just going to have the police shoot you
if you don't leave I tried to get in the
symphony Detroit Symphony Orchestra
wants to conduct and they told me you
can't come back to this building
technically until
29.88 that's how long the ban is so yeah
if you turn your back you conduct the
orchestra but that often results in
terrible music being played because you
should have turned to the crowd and been
like what do you guys want to hear can
anyone teach me how to play music by the
way I don't know how to conduct music
it's got your music guy is conducting
just like all Pizzazz like is it all
just fucking just Alpha energy like the
the that one motherfuckers you got like
18 fucking Chinese people who know
better how to play the fucking Yao Ming
shit what the fuck is that called the
fucking not the no no no the viola
that's some other shit they know what
the fuck they're doing you got to teach
them shit isn't it just about just like
ball just baller just being like just
waving your arms around isn't that what
gets it get she took a conducting class
in college as far as my music degree of
course you did and uh yeah a really good
like choir just kind of takes care of
their own shit but conductors you ain't
shit quote Scott the video guy write
that down in any case maybe a little bit
better advice and I'm being super
presumptuous of course Mike mener great
advice maybe another piece of advice you
could consider is listen to your own
thoughts they're highly important and a
lot of times you're right listen to the
crowd see what's the most logical idea
kind of between the two could be really
close to what you thought could be
really close to what the crowd thought
except that new New View as your
probabilistic likely reality continue to
think about that view yourself continue
to examine others opinions and modify
that view on the margins to get it more
and more clear over time fuck that's not
really a quotable quote but God damn it
I think it's right on the money all
right quote number three quote the only
one you can accurately compare yourself
to is
you the
good this isn't incredibly helpful
advice not just for lifting but all of
life definitely for physique
purposes I mean you have a different
training history than other people
here's a big one I know it'll shock you
you have very different genetics than
other people forget about Peds it's a
lot easier to take performance Hing
drugs than it is to get new genetics or
rewrite your history at least one of
those is intractable according to the
laws of modern physics the the genetics
one is a few years maybe decades off PDS
is nominal but all three of those things
are so different that if you really
think about what you're doing when
you're comparing yourself to someone
else you're trying to learn what is it
that they're doing better than me that
means that they have better results but
there's a fatal conceit in there you
actually can't parse the data you can't
parse the difference and accurately
assign cause and effect
to what it is you thought was different
you see some guy in the gym with pretty
impressive arms and he's curling like
some kind of weird like style and you're
like that's it that's it fucking knew
it that's the way to do it that's why
his arms are big do you really know that
maybe his arms are smaller than they
used to be he got his big arms curling
normally but then he had a nasty elbow
injury in this weird way is the only way
he can curl now and his arms are 90% %
of what they used to be and he's just
regaining a size could you imagine if he
told you that right after you're like
dude I love the curl techniques that we
got your arms he's like actually no it's
backwards you're like look remember you
don't know why two people are different
but all you do know is for sure they
have different genetics unless they're
identical twins and definitely during a
different uh upbringing and possibly
some supplements in the mix that you may
not be taking so comparing yourself to
other people in a very straightforward
way is a Fool's errand because it's like
what the what the fuck what are you
trying to learn you can't even learn
anything doing this so that's definitely
the good stuff very very good stuff
about
this the bad stuff and this is just
low-key bad lowercase
b in bodybuilding and in all other
competition you will be compared to
others better do it yourself first look
at some pictures of who you're up
against versus getting shocked like
crazy at their competition you don't
want to train in your own dungeon and be
like I'm fuck killing it brother it's
like when people are like post their
last physique pick and let's not assume
they're the best of all time
and they're like getting ready for the
show man feeling good there's always
some people in the comments you know
don't know dog shit about the sport or
people that should know better but don't
they're like you're gonna crush it
Taylor oh my God you're gonna win first
place only it's like bitch how you know
who else is showing up you don't you
have no idea Ronnie Coleman could come
out of retirement be like hell no you
taking fifth wait wait hold on Ronnie
but there's only two of us that's right
you got to be three spots away from me
motherfuck Ronnie you don't typically
swear fuck you that's what I don't do
okay you have no idea who's showing up
if you pay attention to the competition
you might know a little better and you
at least kind of generally know where
you stack up and to that point if you at
least know the standard you're up
against again in
competition maybe you can push yourself
just that much further and beat out more
of the competition um sometimes I'll
check out guys I I know how bad that
Scott why you laughing again and here we
go again Mike is letter G letter a
letter
Y someone's writing that
down my
word sometimes I'll look at other
people's Instagram pictures I can't
remotely be as jacked as them but it
motivates me to make this book a little
better myself I look at Derrick Lun for
his waist Mr Olympia and I'm like why I
could diet a little bit more
intelligently just get a little bit more
that crispity crunchity shit so it's
cool to compare yourself to others if
you're doing in a positive way it gives
you a good reference frame and maybe a
little bit of an inspiration to push a
little harder in your own right as long
as you don't get really maladaptive and
low self-esteem you with the shit you're
totally good to go because there's a way
to compare yourself to others that's
really inspirational like oh man that
guy's amazing I might never reach that
boy I'll try oh boy 50s kid well GE is
mister I just want to spend 20 years of
my life taking delarius hormones and
having no friends so I can have one
trophy oh GE wi right and I thought that
threw fuck 50s kids on some wisdom
that's stupid as fuck quit bodybuilding
while you're behind but on a on a real
note you can get real nasty with the
shit you start comparing yourself to
other people be man fucking legs are
small bro like all right we'll just do
your best to get them better like no man
look at all these other fucking guys
huge fucking legs man it just fucking
suck like and Frank I don't know where
you're going with this I think you're
just really sad and maybe you should
have a marijuana cigarette and have some
intercourse
that always brightens me up just kidding
I never smoke because I've got virgin
lungs and I cough a lot in any case
quote number
four
four quote carrying a set to a point
where you are forced to utilize 100% of
your momentary ability is the single
most important factor in increasing size
and
strength very
mearian
absolutist the good
getting really close to failure is
definitely an important factor in muscle
growth especially muscle growth a little
bit less strength but definitely
strength as well hypertrophy signaling
on a one-o-one basis of how close do I
get to failure versus how much molecular
signaling for muscle growth is elevated
is probably like a little exponential
curve where the closer you get the more
signaling and right at failure and even
Beyond you get the most growth hands
down from any one given set or one given
session of training Absol absolutely we
don't talk about sustainability because
that was another problem with that but
in any one case yeah failure is the best
so it's definitely true to say that
getting at least close to failure is a
wise move in trying to make make your
best gains so he's not this is totally
wisdom in the stat
however he says it's the single most
important factor basically getting to
failure is the most important factor in
increasing size and strength that's
actually wrong uh the most important
factor is intensity which is a stupid
sport sciency way of saying load on the
bar how heavy are you
going generally you want to be somewhere
between the five rep range and the 30
rep range for example if you go to
failure with a set of 100 continuous
repetitions you get fucked up once
because it's a novel stimulus but after
that is just not a very good way to grow
muscle on the other hand if you go to
failure with one rep your one rep
max that's just not the best way to go
for strength gains or for size gains for
that matter so it turns out that being
in that boundary layer of five to 30
reps is roughly for size and if we're
being generous two to 10 or two to eight
repetitions for
strength challenging reps in those rep
ranges challenging sets in those rep
ranges that actually is the most
important thing about
training whether or not you hit failure
is not nearly as important and to that
end you don't actually have to get to
failure itself if you stop every single
set of your life at three reps in
reserve you are likely to get 95% of the
gains you would ever have
got two reps in reserve
97% one rep in reserve 99% and made
occasionally go into failure while
mostly doing three two and one uh reps
in reserve is probably going to get you
the best possible gains even better
gains especially if you train a lot
you're really big and Recovery is a
problem for you even better than going
to failure on all your sets almost
certainly so yin and yang great point
about failure is very important but it's
neither the most important nor is it
just better no matter what there's
context quote number five quote man is
an indivisible entity an integrated unit
of mind and body before I get into good
and
bad um why did he like say woman spelled
with like Y and shit cuz like honestly
like men are
like
uh
gross I want to be a feminist at least
one day in my life uh by that I mean a
woman hey hey males of this channel the
99.999% of you that are
audience if you happened to be a
woman say a fine ass woman too for one
day what would you do with your time uh
here are some options stay at home jazz
music candles touch yourself probably in
the mirror option number
two go out to the
club lesbian
Club really such a thing and just
fucking slay
or Scott what else we
got I know Scott I know what you like
you're in a woman's body you're hot
fucking wom you put on your damnedest
sluttiest shit and you you just go out
to the mall to the fucking pawn shop to
the club doesn't matter just dude slay
247 you wouldn't do that last part right
that's weird anyway vote in the comments
in any
case man is an indivisible entity an
integrated unit of Mind and Body here's
the good
thing I love the vibe it's a dope
fucking Vibe there's a huge internal
local of control thing there where it's
like you're fucking in charge bro and
you're not just in charge of your mind
but your body as well and because they
work as an integrated
unit it's really important to realize
that not only should you be working on
your body but you should be working on
your mental acuity as well because if
you have a very strong mind it can milk
the most out of your body if you have a
very strong body it can elevate your
strong mind to perform in its best so
there's a ton of synergy there and
people who train their bodies a lot but
not their minds a ton and vice versa
could find huge benefits in not
pretending that their bodies just
totally unattached to their mind and
vice
versa the bad and this is all
technicalities I have to be a pedantic
asshole quadriplegics and their
existence have proven that the mind and
body are completely separate if
necessary and so this quote is
inaccurate on its base principle and
also something called the split brain
experiment where they take the brain and
they take the Corpus close and and they
cut it in half they don't just do it for
fun it's usually to mitigate insane
seizures when you're really young uh it
actually makes the mind in a sense
pretty deep SS two different minds and
so the Mind actually is also a divisible
entity turns out and the more you zoom
into how human psychology works the more
you realize what you think is the
indivisible entity of your mind is
actually a lot of software programs
Runing simultaneously so trippy so this
quote while in a technical sense is
actually totally wrong in the spirit
sense of what it's trying to convey is
fucking baller and I'm here for it quote
number
six it is the body that produces growth
but only if left undisturbed during a
sufficient rest
period the good most growth happens
during rest absolutely true many people
focus way too much on training and weigh
not enough on rest and they pay the
fucking price with discipline pointing
gains I'm not going to say who this
bodybuilder is I quite honestly barely
remember but there was a bodybuilder a
few years back I I was on Instagram
touching myself and um unrelated no no
wait very related I was on Instagram in
order to have enough visual stimulus so
that I could touch myself productively
and I scrolled to a bodybuilder I'm like
I need this shit I usually just do this
to powerlifters and he had a post
different time zone and he was like 1:00
a.m. just hitting the gym got to get the
work done most people aren't here so uck
them they're missing out and it's like I
feel that like Gary ve grind hustle
energy it's dope but motherfucker you
supposed to be asleep at 1:00 a because
your body's like making all the growth
hormones then and the Circadian rhythm
says you should be asleep and if you
throw that off you actually get poor
gains so why don't you wake up a little
early go to the gym early get to sleep
at a fucking decent hour and then you'll
get your best gains period but a lot of
times our obsession with grinding and
hardcore and work work work and we
forget that the other at least half of
the equation probably more as Mike mener
often said is growth and Recovery like
you see a bodybuilder in the gym most
people see bodybuilder in gym pumping up
and they be like he's growing nope wrong
he's actually not growing right now
they're like okay and they see a
bodybuilder in like a fucking super
comfy chair a lazy boy eating pasta and
ground beef and they're like lazy nope
he's actually growing he's doing his job
now guess that is what it is in
physiologically it's absolutely
true the bad and I'm read real ped I
here so Mike mener get a big old thick
cut of
slack Scott what is slack
exactly I
believe no I I know what the you fucking
asshole I know what it means
figuratively literally because people
say cut slack is it like a cheese leg
substance is it a butter is it more like
a cork is it like a bark what do we
think okay Scott fuck you guys if you
want to apply Russ don't understand how
welcome to America you rush son of a
bitch
W all right so telling you man this this
this guy red white and blue he bleeds
problem is he never bleeds so yes okay
fine Scott fuck you guys we're looking
for another video guy shoot us the DM
we'll get you Scott's job um the
bad moving around a little bit in many
situations not all things like walks
stretching out light train
training that one bitch from three
Apartments down that always want to meet
you comes over you know what I'm talking
about you sit there awkwardly and watch
Netflix do you like TV shows yes good we
will be watching them that's all you
really have to say and then you're in
the fucking juice that kind of shit can
be really excellent for recovery and it
doesn't just mean standing still or
laying down so you don't want to take
this quote to an irrational extreme but
the meat and potatoes of it is fucking
Super
Wise quote number seven quote man's
proper stature is not one of mediocrity
failure frustration or defeat but one of
achievement strength and nobility in
short man can and ought to be a hero
what's the good the spirit energy of
this quote is at a fucking 11 I love
this shit if you disagree with the
general tenor the theme the mood of this
quote I don't want to meet you in real
life I think you should live your sad
fucking life alone somewhere where you
talk to no one and bring no one
down this shit is fucking
baller we got to critique it a little
bit so what are the
downsides um it's very IR Rand now for
those of you who don't know tattoo
number one covered of an IR Rand book
tattoo number two very shittily rendered
another cover of an iron ran book um
this is atlas Shrugged and this ISS
capitalism the unknown ideal if you
Google them the fucking literal covers
will come up so I'm not fresh to the
irand
game but with all philosophies that go a
little extreme some of them go off the
rails a little bit and there's a lot of
stuff in the randan approach to
objectivism which what it really is
objectivism is she invented the shit it
just gets a little kooky in the sense
that people essentially try to drag a
level of precision out of terms
definitions and systems that is not
there for example
the term proper you might have noticed
man's proper stature but exactly what
does proper mean is it something like it
would be nice if maybe that's a more
logical way of saying it it doesn't have
that because a lot of Rand roids
randians they say man's proper mind
man's meaning proper proper proper and
you're like you just say I prefer this
or at least try to couch it in some kind
of more objective terminology
hilariously ironic with objectivism but
proper as kind of a buzzword that's just
dumped in and you're like okay guess I
guess that means good I'm I'm not going
to belabor this point so I could
critique objectivism until I'm blue in
the fucking face oh and people that come
at me for the fucking tattoos I can
critique objectivism better than you so
take a shot in the comments and I'll
probably never see it but if I do oh G
whiz I'm gonna nerd out like crazy never
seen some Insel shit like this in any
case I prefer more scientifically
guarded uh proper language ha like like
that more logical and scientifically
guarded language than the one is used
here like um it sounds really lame which
is why I'm no philosopher like most
people like achievements better than
failure it doesn't have that fucking
ring but I am just splitting hairs and
this is a great quote so I'll just be
shutting the fuck up and going to quote
number eight quote number
eight it is only within the context of
having a properly developed oop I fucked
that up it is only within the context of
having properly developed your mind that
you will be able to truly enjoy the
achievement of your material values
including that of a more muscular body
now my second PhD is in sport physiology
my first five phds sry I think about
that is in learning how to appreciate
muscular bodies and don't I do it well
Scott remember that one time we were on
a shoot in Montreal in your hotel room
the shower broke so he had to come uh
shower but then they had that thing
where there was fires so we had to
conserve water and I ended up just like
lathering your body for an hour straight
it was a spongebath yeah did you feel
cared for yeah did you feel appreciated
I well physically morally the dirtiest
of your life um would you say that I
appreciated your muscular body I would
say that do you claim to have a muscular
body I would not say that wait hold on I
track the earlier in favor of saying
nothing at all all right so the
good uh a developed mind absolutely
allows you appreciate more things to
pick on kids for a second which why
wouldn't I do that's the most
politically correct thing ever you know
like fuck it I'll say there's like Rich
ass little kids that like their parents
will buy them a ticket with with the
parents I guess in the flight to like
international business like
international business class means you
lay back seats right you bitchass little
six-year-old you can't cannot POS you do
not have the cerebrum to appreciate the
miraculousness of the experience being
delivered to you let get out of that
seat let your boy get in there I paid
for economy but I'm playing with y' Mom
and Dad that your kid ain't sitting here
no more and go back and watch Disney
movies in the economy seat which you're
one sixth the size of you'll appreciate
that just fine so a developed mind tldr
definitely just can appreciate
everything
better now the bad just a couple
pedantries here what is a properly
developed mind is it a binary proper
improper I think that's probably not
true another thing is what if you
develop your mind so much that you
become kind of an elite Buddhist and
you're no longer really appreciating
much about Earth Earthly Sensations at
all how many Buddhists do you know
people of true deep Stillness uh
bodybuild in a sense kind of waste their
time cultivating the physical form while
sort of by definition ignoring the
mental form yeah that doesn't add up a
whole lot
he has another quote in there another
part of the quote is truly enjoy what
does truly enjoy mean it isn't it a
spectrum wouldn't you enjoy more things
if you had developed Etc um and this
quote is a perfect example of
simplifying and making precise something
past the point of optimality it's been
said that you know try to explain things
in the simplest way possible but no
simpler because then you just miss
details this is one of those things
where it's like like you know properly
developed and true enjoyment and it's
like this is more relativistic terms
like the more you develop your mind the
more you can enjoy the the achievement
of your material values including that
of a more muscular body that would have
been a cooler way to say it in my view
but who gives a shit what I think I'm a
fucking nobody with no friends no career
and even even pets shy away from
me quote number nine one cannot
actualize his goals until he visualiz
them clearly in the Mind's Eye very Eye
of the Tiger very 80s
too so I think in a sense this could be
technically true one could say that
clear goals are the only kind you can
shake a stick at if your goal isn't
clear what is your goal if you can't
describe to someone your goal do you
really have a goal I don't think
so in addition to that once you can
visualize a goal very
clearly you can definitely be more
effective at marshalling the resources
and willpower to actually actualizing it
because the willpower has a back stop
anytime you start losing your steam you
know wait a minute I have this distinct
goal and I need
this like if you're on a karate kicking
mission to save your wife from sex and
drug smugglers anytime you get tired or
they start beating you up you can be
like wait my wife Kia or if you're
Stephen Seagal in any of his movies you
just halfway through the movie go to a
strip club because you forgot your wife
was kidnapped but then the movie resumes
to further nonsense by the way there's a
channel I think called space ice and
they have Steven Seagal movie reviews
you're welcome uh you're going to laugh
a lot it's fucking unbelievable in any
case yeah knowing the goal is fucking
great and if you know exactly the goal
you kind of start to figure out the
inputs to the goal you're like I'm going
to gain 20 pounds exactly 20 pounds what
does that mean what do I need to eat how
much do I need to train how long is it
going to take if you have a very clear
goal all of the inputs in it can
theoretically be derived if you have a
very goal we're like yeah I just want to
gain some weight okay the fuck does some
mean what do you do then I don't really
know what to do so that sucks the
bad my personal opinion is that goals
are wildly
overrated what it's not
motivational here's what's
underrated working diligently in a
general constructive direction is super
underrated
goals icit things we're trying to reach
behavioral patterns that construct
greatness I think these things are more
important I think goals are not so
important I'll prove it to you in the
following bullshit make belief story
that I made up in my head and typed
out if you just lift and eat and your
only goal is that you want to get bigger
and leaner you can do this for a decade
and after nine years of cranking you
decide you know what I think I'm pretty
big pretty lean I think I want to turn
pro you do your first show you win that
you go to Nationals you win that you
turn pro after 10 years not a single
time during the first nine years was
your goal to turn pro ostensibly if
goals were that important how the fuck
would you be able to accomplish your
goal if 90% of the time that you were
working towards it you weren't even
working towards it there was no goal the
reality here though as you can start to
see is it doesn't matter what goal you
have in your head at the end of the day
like all right watch this right
now I'm gonna win the Olympics 2024 Dr
Mike isn't there a drug test oh oh yeah
a few people have passed it before that
are on drugs Dr Mike don't you have to
be talented on an actual sport and beat
the world's best fuck that's right okay
never mind but just because I pick a
goal doesn't mean I'm any closer to it
however if I pour my fucking time and
energy into getting
better I'm getting better and at some
point I'm so goddamn good at whatever it
is I'm doing then if I pick a goal I'm
their stat bro I'm their quick
a lot of people think that succcess
comes from having this unalterable
vision of a distant reality and going
that is what I'm doing and a lot of
times success does come like that to
people sufficiently gifted and
hardworking but I think for many people
a slightly better way to be like I want
great things I want to be big and strong
and jacked and finally be able to muster
the courage to speak to a woman in in
public uh in a way that she doesn't try
to tase me for and if I just practice
and work and suffer and grind and
rest I'm going to build up so much
capacity that if I actually get to a
point where I can define a very clear
goal I might realize like holy shit I'm
really really close to the shit it's the
work that matters more than the goal and
I know it's lame to say that in a
certain sense because goals are so like
oh yeah like vision boards and shit like
that which is all dope and has its value
but I'm just trying to say there's
another side of the story where don't
get too goal focused maybe get work
focused build something what matters
most is working and
improving you work and improve for a
while you can have a fucking goal how
did Scott the video guy get this whole
YouTube gig when I found Scott I walked
by a gutter in New York City he was
there in a fetal position naked I might
add with only a guitar covering his
genitals he he was so cold just so
pathetic and I was like sir can I help
you in any way he's like really just
like a job music doesn't fucking pay and
I was like oh my God all right get in
here you little Scamp I wrapped him up
in a blanket took him
home Paul you know doesn't have any
friends or family so I did what I wanted
with his body it was fun but after that
I was like hey do do you want to the
chance to do YouTube he wasn't like all
right well we got to have two million
subscribers by 2025 or I'm out didn't
say any of that he was just like hey
like I'd like to do a good job and he
did he did he did and now we're rolling
in literal YouTube money wait would be
literal would it Scott do you actually
get paid for this job I get paid in
goodwi isn't that nice Mr Nick Shaw CEO
of RP is so kind to us he doesn't want
to because they say money is the root of
all evil Scott you and I can absolutely
claim to be pure good because we've
never seen a fucking dime from any of
the shit that we do it's so nice for
Nick Nick is really sinine eating on our
behalf isn't he he takes all the money
so we don't have to have all that dirt
on our conscience in any case focus more
on work more on getting better maybe a
little bit less on exact goals and when
the time comes when you're a fucking
baller you make a goal and maybe you've
already surpassed
boom last quote quote number
10 the proper attitude is to go into the
gym like a rational human being and
perform only the precise amount of
exercise required by Nature more is not
better less is not better the precise
amount required is best so first of all
that actually contradicts one of the
earlier quotes I off on but this quote
is much more correct so we got good we
got bad for some reason I typed in a lot
of bad and not a lot of
good the good is really really good so
I'll just say the good first um this is
just true the quote's fucking true most
of us want to be in the gym to get our
best results and that uh amount that
gets us our best results is like
uh that's kind of important and so yeah
absolutely we're there not to spend any
less time than we have to not to spend
any more time than we have to we're
there to get what we need so fact
straight up capital
F the bad a little pedantry and a little
bit of I think accurate
critiquing Mike men are like to say
optimal a
lot but the research around his era of
sport Science was not sufficiently
clarifying to tell us what that
was and we still have no acute way to
measure what your maximum adaptive
volume is question after four sets of
bicep curls should you do another set or
two or three or should you go home how
do you know you don't guess what I don't
I had a PhD in this fucking shit we
tried a bunch of stuff we tried
cell-free DNA maybe a somewhat of an
accurate marker of damage and thus can
proxy to hypertrophy but that didn't
work out so well so yes in theory or in
hypothesis in notion it's cool to talk
about like exactly the optimal amount
when Mike mener and his boys get on that
shit most people like yes yes exactly
the optimal yes yeah and then they're
expecting like so what is it and then
usually the hit people just
render fantasies like it's just one set
it's whatever Dorian did and it's like
what the how excuse me how how how do
you know that and they just turns out
they don't they just kind of fucking
made it
up what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever
made get yours
now so the best we have for what is
actually optimal is some shitty uh two
two things one is like how good were my
gains in the past mesle cycle versus the
ones before tons of confounders but at
least it's the most meat potatoes way to
ascertain if you're on the right path or
not but we also have these like stimulus
and fatigue proxies things like pump and
soreness and strength and recovery and
the thing is Mike Menor Sher fuck didn't
know about him because I had to be the
first person in the scientific field and
I think technically in bodybuilding to
unify the theory of how important they
were and that these things could be used
as valid proxies for training did I just
did that in the last 10 years Mike
benser didn't know them and what's worse
as I kind of said earlier sometimes he
pretended to know them he said one set
to failures all you need and it's like
guys I don't mean to be a dick because
mikee men a lot of good shit going on
that's just make belief man um one set
for everyone no matter what it's
disappointing and he like to say shit
like you know as required by Nature like
what does nature say about sets in the
gym with artificially made human
equipment the fuck are you talking about
dude wacky stuff the meat and potatoes
the the idea behind the quote is baller
but there are many ways to take quotes
like that and go off into crazy town for
lack of a better
term all right wrapping it up my two
cents about Mike mener I'll go bad to
good this time to leave us on a nice
note many of his ideas and many of the
reasonings to his ideas were just wrong
some wrong on the margins failure wasn't
terrible but it wasn't the best some by
long shot like one set to failure per
week is good for almost
anyone couple
couple of more a couple more examples
one failure is not categorically
Superior to reps and Reserve it's just
not he thought it was he was wrong less
volume is not categorically Superior to
more volume he was a huge advocate of
less volume and that's probably wrong if
you had to make a probabilistic
caricature of the literature you would
probably be more right in saying more
volume is better than less just what the
studies say don't kill me guys I'm just
just I'm just a messenger
and
lastly one set to failure is not a magic
number maximum adaptive volume for
everyone it's probably a maximum adapted
volume for almost no one people Beyond
two or three weeks of the first time
ever training for most people more
volume per session per week is better
than
that that's the bad stuff about Mike
mener what's the good stuff Mike mener
publicly and this is very good was a
thinking person and encouraged everyone
around him to think to use logic to use
reason to think about best practices and
to question tradition and that's huge
because that's more than you can say for
most bodybuilders even today most
bodybuilders like yeah man let fucking
do what works bro shut the fuck up don't
talk because there's no information
coming out your mouth just do this do
this fucking take steroids eat protein
get that's it there's a picture of will
suffice there's no reason to speak
you're a fucking idiot go back and watch
all Mike mener shit think at least
somewhat try to pretend you're Mike
mener and then you'll just be a better
person for it so Mike mener was straight
up ahead of his time at his core because
he tried to reason he tried to think and
he did this bereft of most exercise and
Sport Science knowledge today you
motherfuckers out there are godamn
privileged and I don't mean social
justice Warrior nonsense privileged
that's magical and fairy tales and can't
debate against anyone I mean real
privilege like it's on you guys have
chat GPT you can just ask it about
training you guys have this channel you
have 50 other channels you can look up
you could just know so much shit about
training which straight up didn't know
Mike mener tried to figure things out
and did a pretty good job of it too at
the time when most people were
like like no offense but you guys ever
listen to like Arnold talk about his
fucking bodybuilding shit yeah you've
got the lake you've got the isce the pup
and then afterward you did the triup and
then the lake this this closer grip
works that thing it's like
Arnold that's all nonsense bro Arnold
was right about some shit but like Mike
mener intellectually as far as thinking
deeply about bodybuilding he scooted the
fuck away from the pack which is
awesome you can do a little bit of that
yourself in our modern era by reading
experimenting thinking not just doing
dogmatic stuff and seeing meth results
think a lot read a lot learn a lot
practice and experiment a lot and you're
going to put on your little Mike mener
hat because you know all the shit Mike
mener didn't know you can be that much
better for yourself and that's I think
the spirit of Mike mener that lives
technically speaking in all of us all
right beginners intermediates Advanced
what do you get out of this lecture many
people will just scoot to this last part
beginners don't worry about any of this
stuff hopefully the jokes were funny
just train with excellent technique and
aim to get a bit stronger with every
session or every two sessions and you're
good to go intermediates try l lower
volumes and higher proximities to
failure higher relative efforts going
close to failure with lower volume try
higher volume but with rir two or three
reps in reserve see which one bangs best
for you it could be that one bangs
better than the other then just do
mostly that one it could be that it's
muscle group specific like for your
biceps failure sets are great for
triceps R works better I've had that
happen on my physique a bunch of times
but it could be both like sometimes you
train a failure for a while and it works
fucking awesome with low volume then you
kind of run ground you switch to a
higher volume less to failure program
and you get really crazy new radical
growth sometimes variation is the spice
of life so there's a huge mix and match
you can do but if you don't practice
yourself and you don't experiment on
yourself you'll never quite be able to
tell which one works best for you now
for the advanced main points as an
advanced lifter allegedly so-called
Advanced you have to find your minimum
effective volumes you have to find your
maximum recoverable volumes you have to
train between them somewhere between
three reps in reserve two with four reps
negative -2 reps in
reserve and figure out where you get
your best stimulus to fatigue ratios in
those ranges and do more of that thing
that works and that's something you
should be able to know as an advanced
lifter very well about
yourself I'm GNA say some shit that's a
little controversial but I think it's
fucking
true schools of
thought there's the fucking high volume
people there's the hit
people all kinds of different schools of
thought about bodybuilding I'm old
school bro and fuck that I'm a new
school tick tocker scroll scroll swipe
swipe
whatever if you think you're
Advanced and you still have a school of
thought I'm G cut you the realest deal
you're not Advanced you're just
following the
crowd Advanced lifters who are always
also Advanced
thinkers use all of the modes of
thoughts and philosophies on the
margins my chest gets really sore for
minimum training it's just a super
responsive muscle group so I'll do two
sets of close grip incline couple sets
of dips post that and people were like I
thought you were a high volume guy what
are you doing hit now then my shoulders
which I can train for an intensely
absurd amount of time I'll post like at
Fourth shoulder training session of this
fucking week did six sets of laterals
people are like so you're a high volume
guy nope I thought you were guy didn't
you do two sets a bench like oh my
fucking
god folks it's probably better to stop
trying to see the world through just
hugely filtered lenses of there low
volume guy I'm a high volume guy I'm a
failure guy I'm an R guy and start to
see that there's a context in which
Everything Has Its Right Place and
specifically various strategies have the
right place for you at the right time
for you learn how your body works
experiment with everything and you're G
to see a map
of where and how training is best for
you and for many other people especially
if you coach you are no longer
than containing yourself to just one
mindset you use all styles which Bruce
Lee said that
shit
anyway me cancel for that one folks let
me know what you think like subscribe
comment YouTube Mr Beast all that shit
see you guys next
time