people sometimes get confused and that
first bit of their eccentric is also
fast so they're like forceful new like
they just go like this and they drop it
I want a forceful concentric phase I
want you to pause and immediately switch
back to all right this needs to be a
slow eccentric melt the out of your
Eason trick another thing people do is
they'll get to like the end of the
Eastern trick and instead of continuing
to stretch they'll be like okay it's
time to go up so they kind of Bounce
it's the same with those squats and
maybe the bench press they really
control and then they kind of like
double bounce off their chest and they
try to push too too quickly so really
control the decent trick you should have
a pause here with a full stretch and a
pause here for the forceful concentric
okay slow pause all stretch stretch
stretch forceful right don't speed up
any part of that motion because you're
caught up in that concentric needs to be
fast fast it's gonna suck because there
is going to be quote unquote constant
tension on the muscle right it's gonna
hurt and you're gonna get less reps yes
but it's okay