hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization is intermittent fasting a
good idea is it a good idea for you is
it a good idea for your children uh no
definitely not your children but maybe
for you intermittent fasting the science
is quite clear now there's been lots of
research there's some not great stuff
about it there's some great stuff about
it and I have some tips at the end of
this video about how if you want to try
fasting how you can get the most out of
it so first let's talk about what
fasting probably doesn't do or makes it
not so special first it doesn't help you
lose any more weight fat than just
regular meal timing with caloric
constraint it's all about the calorie
deficit and intermittent fasting there's
no magic about it it's not some kind of
crazy special weight loss thing next it
doesn't seem to have any cognition
boosting effects for the average person
some people see no difference some
people have more mental Clarity some
people just don't have any food in their
brains and they get very tired and very
lack of focus and then they can't
actually do a good job on average no
real net advantage to intermittent
fasting so don't think it's going to
boost your brain health or something
like that next healthwise it doesn't
seem healthier than multiple daily meals
throughout the day it has another
Advantage potentially we'll talk about
in just a bit on the benefits but
regular General Health if you see
someone eating four meals a day someone
eating one meal a day they can be
equivalently as healthy another one is a
lot of adherence of intermittent fasting
will say it's really easy to stick to
that's just not true for most people for
most people it's very hard to stick to
cuz well you know you're not allowed to
eat the whole day and you're starving up
until you actually get to eat and then
you binge a ton of food and it's kind of
weird it's not for everyone it can be
for some people but it's not this hack
of a you know intermittent fasting
proponents will say oh this is great
you'll have no hunger and all that stuff
that's true for some people but it's
definitely not true for most and lastly
because your muscle grows and is
sustained with multiple daily high
protein feedings intermittent fasting is
absolutely not ideal to grow muscle and
it is not ideal to sustain muscle those
are the downsides but there are upsides
intermittent fast fting might be easier
for you personally to stick to if you
prefer that schedule some people feel
bogged down with food food is annoying
for them through the day they wake up
they have some caffeine they go through
the day they have some more caffeine
they do a workout they have their
feasting window when they're not fasting
anymore for a few hours and then they go
to sleep and it's just hunky dory if
that schedule works well for you you
might love intermittent fasting and
there's not a damn thing wrong with it
next by a small margin we're not
positive about this but it looks like by
a small margin intermittent fasting may
be able to increase how long you live
your longevity it's what if that's worth
it to you it it makes sense why it would
be consider reducing your meal frequency
or trying some periods of intermittent
fasting to see if it's the right fit
lastly if you do intermittent fasting
properly you're really attentive in a
way that I'll describe in the next slide
you can keep most of your muscle on your
body as you diet down and lose more fat
so if you're using intermittent fasting
to lose fat which most people are it
doesn't mean you're going to lose pounds
of muscle and just turn into a little
twink you probably lose mostly fat and
still have an awesome muscular physique
underneath if you do things properly and
what does that mean some of these
recommendations will be to fasting and
some will be to modify fasting into
almost fasting which is a lot better
than regular fasting and here's the
first one if you want to save more of
your muscle mass or even build some
muscle mass as you fast consider having
protein only or mostly protein meals
once or twice in the fasting period so
let's say
you break your fast at 7:00 p.m. and you
eat up until 900 p.m. and then you go to
bed at like 10: or 11: that means the
rest of the day you're not eating that
means you are in a position where your
muscles are not exposed to the amino
acids which are breakdown products of
protein and your probability of muscle
loss is decent and your probability of
muscle growth is really low because
there's no raw materials but what about
this instead of totally pure fasting
when you wake up in the morning after a
few hours have some Greek yogurt it's
mostly protein anyway or have a protein
shake and maybe have another one later
on or have some very lean meat with some
vegetables it's almost fasting is very
few calories but it once or twice during
that early part of the day if you get a
decent chunk of protein in it can keep
your muscle on your body and it can even
help you grow a little bit of muscle
still you get most of the Health and
Longevity benefits of fasting because
you have a very pulsatile feeding and uh
non-feeding window or mostly feeding
most non-feeding and that way you get a
lot of the advantages but you mitigate
the downsides you don't have to do this
but it's something for you to consider
if you really want to try fasting and
you like the lifestyle but you're like
man I work hard for my muscle I don't
want it to lose any more than I have to
in a fat loss diet this is something to
think about
next what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now if you are going to
train with weights which you should be
you should plan to train right before
your eating window opens up the best
time to eat for weight training is right
after training and if you can get a ton
of food in which if you're intermittent
fasting you're going to get a ton of
food in after training that is precisely
the time to do it you don't want a
situation which you train in the morning
and then you spend the rest of the day
fasting and your muscles are like ah
help we're not recovering we're not
growing and then when they're less
sensitive and less ready to grow and
recover later in the evening you're
feeding them again so good way to fast
is to wake up go to work do all your
things take some caffeine before you
train hard potentially if you're
tolerant of that sort of thing really
train super hard maybe between 4:00 and
6 p.m. or something like that or 5: to
7: and then at 700 p.m. or whatever come
home and your feeding window begins it
feeds your muscles a ton it feeds your
fat less than it would because your
muscles soak up a bunch of the nutrients
it recovers you really well it
potentiates the muscle growth over the
night and then the next day you begin
the process all over over again it
aligns really really really well as
opposed to training some random time
throughout the day of the morning and
then not eating right after you train
when you are in your feasting period
when you're eating just because you're
in fasting doesn't mean anything goes
you still want to eat as healthy as
possible in most cases so yeah you know
rice and chicken and steak and whole
grain bread and tons of great healthy
sauces based in oils that's what you
want to be eating as opposed to pizza
and ice cream or whatever even though
you can have some of those things and
some okay ideally want to still be
eating mostly healthy food fasting is
not some hack where you're like
food quality I don't need it anymore you
got to eat high quality food just in
your feeding window and lastly after
you're nice and full and you've started
digesting so you're not too full that's
a good time to go to sleep again
buttressing the idea that you should be
doing your feeding window your feasting
window in the evening so that about an
hour hour and a half after you're done
eating you go to sleep and because
you're nice and full of food the the
sleep is going to be ultra high quality
you're going to get a great duration and
it's going to have all the raw materials
in your bloodstream with which to
recover your body to give you energy
back to heal up your muscles to grow
them to prevent their loss etc etc etc
if you eat most of your food in the
morning or in midday then by the time
you get to the evening you're falling
asleep hungry which means you can have
problems falling asleep that's bad your
sleep window can be curtailed you wake
up too early cuz you're starving and you
wake up and have really crappy sleep
throughout the night because you don't
have enough nutrition in you so at the
end of the day it really kind of starts
to make a lot of sense to have your
feeding window later in the evening to
potentiate that sleep to potentiate that
great training and to have the best
results possible all right that's
intermittent fasting science explained I
feel like Jeff Nipper out here see you
guys next
[Music]
time