21s if you're doing these you're missing
out on bicep growth these might be one
of the silliest little ideas that the
fitness industry has ever come up with
welcome back to Wolf coaching soon to be
Dr Milo wolfher and today we're talking
about 20 ones here's why I have beef
with 20 ones my PhD is actually on range
of motion and muscle hypertrophy so I'm
kind of an expert when it comes to this
whole muscle length 21s and hypertrophy
research let me give you a quick
breakdown of what 21s are first use
seven bottom half repetitions you just
go halfway up and come back down then
you do seven top half repetitions you go
from halfway up to all the way up and
finally you do seven full range of
motion curls going from all the way down
to all the way up and here's where my
PhD comes in recent research has
uncovered the importance of the length
and position for hypertrophy
specifically there's been five studies
comparing the bottom half or so of a
repetition that's called a length and
partial because that's where your muscle
is lengthened to a full range of motion
repetitions like those seven full reps
you do at the end of 20 ones out of
these five studies four studies I found
a benefit to doing length and partials
over a full range of motion for
hypertrophy here's beef number one the
Bordeaux curl the exercise that the 21s
are typically performed on is not a
great exercise for the biceps it is
already quite easy at the bottom and
most challenging in the middle or top of
each rep so you're not really getting
good stimulus in that lengthened
position and other exercises that more
heavily load that latent Position will
very likely give you more muscle growth
in your biceps beef number two in
addition to this by making you do top
half reps and full range of motion reps
you're mostly training your biceps in
the shortened position not really in a
lengthened position which is better for
growth as I mentioned earlier emerging
evidence suggests that the length and
position is really important for growth
and doing top half reps or doing full
range of motion reps really removes that
emphasis on the lengthen position which
is thought to be key for hypertrophy
finally beef number three this is a
minor quibble but 21 reps is a lot of
reps a lot of people will struggle to go
close to failure while doing 21 reps and
we do actually have research check out
this video here showing that going close
enough to failure can double your muscle
growth so if people are doing 21 reps
getting a crazy burn and not getting
close enough to failure as a result this
probably going to hold them back check
out this video here for more information
so 21s are a bad option because they
don't really challenge you in that
stretched out position they make you
focus more so on the shortened position
and finally it's a lot of reps so what
do I recommend instead I recommend the
beige and curl or a cable curl facing
away from the cable specifically I want
you to set up a bench sit down set up
the cable about hand height at the
bottom of each rep so that there's the
most tension in the length and position
then let your arm come back and let your
shoulder overext Diamond this will place
a greater stretch on the long head of
the biceps in other words with this
exercise you're able to most load the
biceps and elbow flexors at the very
bottom of the wrap where the biceps and
elbow flexors are most lengthened and
you're getting a greater lengthening of
the biceps long head by hyper extending
your shoulder so you're getting a super
long biceps and elbow flexor and you're
getting the most resistance and
challenge at the very bottom of the rep
this is going to be by far better than
20 ones could be for bicep growth
finally you get to sit down and who
doesn't like sitting am I right anyways
that was a short video on why I don't
think 21s are a good idea based on the
science if you like the video please
comment like subscribe check out my
other videos and I will see you guys in
that next one peace