hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
purisation today's topic is reducing
hunger while dieting for fat loss
good god is this an important lecture
for anyone who's ever lost fat and
realized that being hungry stinks and
hunger is honestly one of the reasons
many people fail to meet their goals in
fat loss because good god you know when
you're
real deep into a fat loss diet and
off burritos and potato chips and
brownies and can you guys tell i'm
dieting jk i'm actually not dieting that
hard quite yet so all those things sound
fine but when you get really crazy into
a diet they sound crazy good
and it makes dieting harder if you're
hungry all the time hunger interferes
with sleep all this other bad stuff it
stresses you out we want to reduce it as
much as possible imagine a fat loss diet
process
which you complete and upon reflection
you never really got super hungry i mean
holy crap is that a huge victory
eight
hunger reduction strategies that i'm
personally aware of and we have
published in our books in renaissance
periodization the renaissance diet 2.0
book by the way is the one you want to
buy if you want to learn a lot more
about these and how to apply them
here they are i'm going to list them out
and as i list them i'm going to describe
them
later i'll let you know when to use them
because there's a good time and not a
great time and then lastly we'll talk
about uh one meal that we can make that
has or less very similar macros but is a
bit of a different approach as far as
food selection that integrates most of
these strategies one meal is a really
anti-hunger meal that that'll really
fill you up keep you full longer one
meal is the opposite trend where you
just hate food but you still have to eat
a ton a mass gaining meal that uses the
opposite of pretty much all these
strategies so
first
is low calorie density
a lot of folks are interested in saying
okay i like cheeseburgers how can i
integrate them into my diet well the
answer is macros if it fits your macros
then it's good to go the problem is you
eat half a cheeseburger and because it's
so dense in calories the eating
experience is quite quickly over you're
still pretty hungry and you're done so
you're just miserable but you don't have
any more calories if you eat things like
green veggies like fruits like oats like
uh you know chicken breasts and and fish
type of proteins
there is a lot of calories in a huge or
sorry not so many calories in a huge
volume of food and after eating all that
you're really full but for the calories
you need to hit that meal so low calorie
density is absolutely a great idea which
is why most junk foods are more or less
ruled out for most people when they're
really pushing the pace in fat loss
dieting because almost one of the
quintessential unifying
descriptions of junk food uh sort of
underneath it all is that the junk food
has a high calorie density almost every
time
second higher protein this tends to top
off at just north of a gram per pound
per day but up to a gram per pound and
probably a little bit over the more
protein you eat generally speaking the
more you are satiated which is really
good so if you're on a low protein diet
which i know some of you folks have
friends and family that do fad diets and
regular fitness stuff and you're they're
trying to lose fat they're eating very
little protein you're like you know this
could be a lot easier for you if you ate
more protein and that's absolutely
correct
and in fact eating protein at every
major meal tends to curb hunger than
eating a lot of it at some points and no
protein at other points
number three
not eating when not hungry okay the last
thing you want to do is the following
let's say you're a person like myself
who isn't super hungry in the mornings
but gets pretty hungry in the evenings
the last thing you want to do
is shovel food into your mouth in the
morning when you hate it
and then in the evening you got these
little bitty portions of food you finish
and you're done you're like ah you start
eating your own hand
if you notice that at some points of the
day you are predictably not as hungry
don't eat a ton of food either
redistribute your meals and macros or
even if you've made the meals already
just save some of that food for later if
you get not so hungry during breakfast
but pretty hunger during lunch eat a
smaller breakfast or eat half the
breakfast you normally would
save the rest or portion the macros the
rest towards lunch and then when you're
predictably hungry at lunch you're going
to have a big meal and you're just never
going to be hungry
if you're stuffing yourself at any one
part of the day and then ravenous at
another part it's like you have too much
here not enough there all you need to do
is move it in and then everything is
level you've got two victories you're
never uncomfortable from eating too much
and you're never hungry which is a
really really great thing this one takes
a little bit of uh you know a few weeks
at least maybe a few days of feeling out
your body to see when you're hungriest
and whatnot remember nutrient timing as
long as you get multiple high protein
meals per day is not really a big deal
on fat loss results so it's okay to eat
a little bit more in the evening a
little bit more in the morning more
midday whenever you tend to find
yourself hungrier and less at the times
when you're not super hungry so even
balls deep into a fat loss phase my
first meal of the day is usually a
protein shake uh like casein or casein
way mix because i look at food and i'm
like uh i have to have protein so i have
the shake and then like three hours
later four hours later i'm like oh yeah
i could eat some food and by that i just
go train and then come back and so on
and so forth
next higher fiber
fiber tends to attract water to itself
it tends to expand the stomach and the
small intestines and that tends to give
a signal of fullness so you're feeding
high fiber foods that's really good also
fiber has between very few and no
calories at all so while you're getting
super full the calorie density equation
is really boosted by fiber so it has
really two benefits in that regard and
that's really cool fiber predictably
lowers hunger
how many stalks of broccoli can you eat
until you don't eat broccoli anymore
yeah i don't know one or something like
that tons of fiber very low calorie
density checks a lot of the boxes next
no liquid calories okay one of the
easiest way to get people regular folks
that are overweight to lose weight is to
tell them no more fruit juices no more
milkshakes and no more sodas switch to
diet sodas
and as soon as they do that there's 800
calories just drop out of their diet and
they're no hungrier because generally
speaking liquid calories are the
opposite of the extreme they're an easy
way to get tons of calories in
without
uh you know your hunger falling off much
so actually if you're trying to tell
someone to gain mass and then i can't
eat any more physical food you say okay
try some orange juice with your meals of
chicken and rice and all of a sudden
that's 300 grams extra carbs through the
whole day and they're like i actually
feel quite quite good and i'm not super
stuffed so this is the opposite of what
you want it's crazy to see people really
in the throes of a diet really really
complaining about hunger and they're
still drinking orange juice or they're
having post-workout shakes just have a
post-workout meal get rid of the shake
it's going to make things a lot easier
another one a bit more tentative but
there's some research to support this is
to drink a little bit of fluid before
you start eating a meal and especially
at restaurant meals and stuff that are
super tasty if you eat a bit slower
there may be an advantage to curbing
hunger just a little bit better with
that meal or not having that insane
ability to pile food on before your
brain even registers your eating
so if you eat a little slowly so
basically here's how it is if you sit
down in a restaurant with your friends
and you're at the end of a fat loss diet
you're like okay i know what to order on
the menu but god damn it i'm ravenous
and you know the waitress brings like a
little pan pizza for someone you're like
oh my god that smells so good it looks
good ah this is tough
get a good diet soda of some kind or
just like i like to get uh what's it
called like club soda or whatever just
the uh you know the bubble shit right
and you get that and you just doubt it
okay not you don't have to go super fast
but you know over the course of two or
three minutes down the whole thing ask
for another one and then when your meal
comes because already then you're kind
of full ask for uh some
more and then when your meal comes eat
your meal slowly talk to your friends
scroll on your phone do whatever it is
you do
that actually tends to give you an
experience that by the time you're done
eating a meal you tend to feel fuller
then if you just completely just
just warp the meal right into your face
you're gonna be sitting around much more
likely to still be hungry so that's um
strategy it doesn't work all the time
not for all people certainly something
to consider
next is a higher intake of caffeine than
what you're used to so if you're used to
none introducing caffeine tends to
really really squash the appetite quite
well if used to 300 migs of caffeine per
day slowly work up to 350 400 400 uh 450
500 and so on and so forth and as long
as you're staying in within the safe
range which is like 700 or 1000 migs per
day as long as your sleep isn't crazy
affected caffeine does work so if you're
really struggling with hunger especially
early to midday when caffeine wouldn't
interfere with your nightly sleep it's
probably a good idea to have some
caffeine it really does work and most of
the fat burners on the market work
exactly and only through this mechanism
lastly and this one is massive it was
not this is one of those best for last
ones it really is
reduce or eliminate high palatability
foods high palatability foods is a real
science the ass way of saying the food
tastes really fucking good you just want
to keep eating it right what was a huge
tagline for decades for potato chips bet
you can't eat just one that's fucking
hard the shit's taste good and as soon
as you have one potato chip you just
want another one for me the ultimate my
ultimate heal
is the salt and vinegar potato chips
this might as well be made of crack
cocaine to your boy because i'm on that
shit like white on rice i can eat a
whole fucking bag without the assistance
of marijuana and if i get doped up a
little bit who knows how many bags i'm
gonna eat i don't because i'm too high
to fucking count the bags but
tasty food has this effect especially
when you're deep into a fat loss diet of
just making you want to eat more of it
not less i get one potato chip i want
10. if i have zero i want five right
so
if i'm getting into a place with my diet
or if you're getting into place with
your diet where you're really starting
to be hungry start eating blander more
boring foods that fill you up and check
all these other boxes and all of a
sudden people are like oh man you're
you're pretty starving right now you're
like yep i'm starving and they're like
bitch you're excited for your next meal
and you're like i know am i
bland chicken and broccoli and
veggies and brown rice
sure i mean it's food and then if you're
starving enough even that tastes good
but it doesn't taste addictive good and
after you finish that meal you're like
i'm good for a couple hours right
whereas if you finish whatever if we
really fuck this up half a slice of
pizza and you know a can of orange juice
or something
you're gonna be hungry immediately after
finishing it having me met the same
calories so
really counter-intuitive because when
the time comes when your fat loss diet
is really really torturing you
you're going to want instinctively
desire the most high palatable foods i
mean look i've done this before towards
the end of a really insane diet i make
lists of foods i'm going to eat as soon
as the diet is over or so well i'm going
to introduce slowly like oh this one
pizza place oh my god this one pasta
place am i italian i just didn't know so
that kind of stuff can be really
tempting but if you move away from it
then you know you don't uh have as big
of a risk of of going overboard and
you're actually quite satisfied i'm
gonna make a really terrible awkward
analogy here uh you guys ever seen that
stupid ass movie back from the early
2000s i think it's like 40 days and 40
nights it's with josh hartnett he was so
dreamy probably is still i haven't
looked into it in a while but in this
case it's like a movie about like he's
like stopped uh jane the d for like 40
days straight which i think a really
stupid idea probably make most people
criminally insane but uh like if you
decide to go you'll be abstinent which
in a sense
fat loss dieting is like partial
abstinence from food um
if you're abstinent from from jerking
off do you watch as much porn as
possible no no because as certain as you
as soon as you turn on pointer holy shit
here i go
abstinence over if you just avoid the
shit then it makes it way easier and
someone's like oh bet you can't wait to
jerk off you're like yeah i guess think
about it but normally i just don't see
anything in my natural environment have
no friends i stared all day no big deal
right same idea for eating or similar if
you just not introduce yourself to
really super tasty foods it's going to
make the thing much easier than
otherwise
how's that for the analogy i i hope many
of you will comment for the old
algorithm about i wonder what kind of
porn
i don't know i'm not going to give you
any more fuel for this shit conversation
over damn it all right
when
do we use these anti-hunger strategy
because you could say as soon as the
diet starts we use them all
well hold on a second
diets follow a pretty distinct pattern a
pretty predictable pattern
generally speaking as soon as you start
oh sorry if you're dieting properly
fat loss dieting properly which means
you introduce certain macros that will
be at a deficit and as soon as your body
adjusts several weeks later you reduce
them and then adjust and you reduce them
and then it dies over okay so we're
sequential production of macros
when you start your fat loss diet you're
generally not super hungry at the start
of the diet because you're just
maintaining your massing before the
macros are plentiful so the hunger gets
worse as the diet progresses and you're
most hungry at the tail end of the diet
or just after the diet is over pretty
predictable almost
all cases it happens like this so when
you just start the diet
don't use a whole lot of anti-hunger
strategies eat relatively normally
without mind to a whole lot of these and
get the easy fat loss while you can i
mean look if you can eat you know
relatively normal foods even some tasty
ones and just like lose a pound or two a
week fuck do it because also you can
save the anti-hunger strategies for
later for when they're really really
necessary save your big weapons for when
you need them as your hunger climbs
through the diet and you notice like
okay the last two days i was really
hungry and it's starting to affect my
sleep let's turn a couple of these dials
on one of these eight anti-hunger
strategies a little up or all the way up
and then we'll get that effect so you
begin to fuse uh use a few more of them
or use any one of them more
and then you get more and more of an
effect and then when the fat loss phase
is over
i would highly recommend so that you
don't rebound and turn into a gigantic
fat piece of shit like me
you don't want to just as soon as that
is over go to the all you could eat
pizza buffet and then ice cream buffet i
don't even know if that's thing and then
you know rocket ship to fattest man of
all time what you want to do is continue
to use the anti-hunger strategies but
boost your macros to high maintenance or
massing phase levels because there's
only so many weeks you're going to be
able to eat quote-unquote clean food or
anti-hunger food
uh you know at maintenance or massing
macros until you're like fuck this i
don't want to eat anymore and then as
you get really full over days and weeks
uh usually just
you know one to two weeks later you're
gonna be like man i'm not craving as
much as i used to be these meals are
really filling me up as a matter of fact
it's tough for me to get to my meals
then you turn the dial a little bit down
on the anti-hunger stuff then you start
doing the situation where like okay you
were eating really low density foods now
you can't stuff that much food in you
turn it down a notch to moderate density
foods not cheeseburgers quite yet but
some tastier stuff that has a few more
calories in it and then you're back to
normal and that entire time you
essentially reintroduce yourself back
into normal eating and everything is
good that's it it's almost a
self-solving problem it does take a ton
of diligence because remember
instinctually what do you want to do
after the diet end of the diet's
actually gnarly time
you're really prone to fat gain and
psychologically you're you're free
you're good to go like at least during
the diet you're like i'm not going to
cheat myself damn it sorry i'm going to
do this diet i'm not going to cheat
after the diet diet's over no one's
counting body only shows over all the
pictures have been taken who cares and
you're in a position where
psychologically you're ready to eat
everything so that trifecta really can
really screw you over so you have to be
diligent and forward thinking and saying
no i'm going to do this right few cheat
meals here and there is okay but make
sure most of your intake is still
relatively anti-hunger and then only
weave it away weave it down as your body
demonstrates and your mind demonstrates
to you over days and weeks that actually
no i'm having trouble eating all this
shit and in order for me to actually
macros i have to dial down the
anti-hunger stuff so as an example
because at this point like i gave you a
lot of theory and shit like that but uh
you might be like okay what really what
is this an example of right so here we
go
low hunger meal
let's say
40 grams of protein
okay
and you get that 40 grams of protein
from
chicken thighs okay actually
30 grams of protein
because
you have lowered your protein a little
bit from the ex like 1.25 grams per
pound you've actually lowered it to one
gram per pound because you're massing
and you're having trouble eating
30 grams of protein from chicken thighs
which means more fat and chicken thighs
are so fucking tasty
white rice with some teriyaki sauce oh
my god we can make this go down no
problem a bit of cilantro with half a
tomato deliciousness okay no crazy
high volume veggies or anything
eight ounces of fruit juice with that
meal you eat it right after a cardio
session is over or a session of activity
is over and you eat it over the course
of 10 minutes because boom you wanna as
soon as a tasty meals in front of you
and you're having trouble gaining mass
you want that meal you want to get ahead
of the pace it's kind of like a race
don't choke to death but you want to eat
at a diligent pace you guys know how it
is when you're massing and you're not
hungry if you slow down on a meal a shit
catches up with you and then you're not
finishing it at all
on the other hand similar meal similar
macros
on a high hunger situation at the end of
a fat loss diet 40 grams of protein
notice the more protein but with chicken
breasts this time look how many people
get excited about chicken breast versus
chicken thighs it's not even close
brown rice flavored with plain salt at
this point you're feeling sorry for
yourself but you sure as hell not super
excited to eat this tons of green
veggies half the plates green veggies
tons of volume excellent amount of fiber
so on and so forth
six ounces of water right before the
meal eight ounces of coffee with the
meal so as you finish your meal the
caffeine hits the blood and it further
blunts your hunger so you can three or
four hours later is still not hungry
and
after cardio is over you go shower you
go shave do whatever 30 minutes later
after cardio is over because after
cardio sometimes uh including after
training but especially after cardio you
didn't have the situation where you're
not very hungry like physical activity
directly um increases your fight or
flight hormone secretion and that
usually those are anti-hunger hormones
so you buy yourself 30 minutes of
anti-hunger time for free and only eat
after you shave and shower so that you
can you know have that same amount of
anti-hunger time and 30 minutes extra
through the day and you might eat this
meal over the course of 20 minutes
instead of 10 really taking your time to
eat the meal so that you get nice and
satiated
just an example folks feel free to apply
this yourself
comment like subscribe
youtube tik tok instagram i have no idea
where i am it's all social media to me
see you next time