foreign
to the house of hypertrophy a brand new
study comparing training in muscle once
a week to three times per week for
hypertrophy and strength has come out in
my view it's the single best designed
study on training frequency to date
primarily as it provides individual data
allowing us to know if the best training
frequency differs between individuals
furthermore this new study has actually
shifted my opinion on trading frequency
since my last video on the topic let's
dive straight into the new paper
24 trained men with an average 203
kilogram unilateral leg press one rep
max were recruited subjects were split
into two groups in one of the groups the
researchers equated total training
tonnage between training once and three
times per week this actually resulted in
the once per week frequency performing
the max number of reps they could per
set while they're three times per week
frequency in order to accumulate similar
tonnage to the once per week frequency
had to hold back and perform many of the
sets further from failure in my view as
proximity to failure is crucial for
muscle growth and there's not a strong
relationship between training tonnage
and muscle growth this group isn't
useful or applicable to the real world
the second group is the more interesting
group that more accurately translates to
the real world so I'll only detail this
but if you're still interested in the
first group I've detailed all you need
to know about this group in the pinned
comment anyway with the second group
subjects had one leg assigned to train
once a week and the other leg assigned
to train three times per week with the
leg assigned to train once a week
subjects perform nine sets of the max
reps they could on the unilateral leg
press all in one session per week with
the three times per week lick subjects
perform three sets of the max reps they
could on the unilateral leg press across
three sessions per week so total sets
per week were the same between both legs
note both legs Target rep numbers per
set depended on the week and subjects
adjusted to load each set when necessary
to make sure they hit that week's rep
number Target it was ultimately found
both strength measured by unilateral leg
press 100 Max and muscle growth measured
by quadriceps cross-sectional area at
around a 50 region were not
statistically different between the one
and three times per week leg now
statistical significance or
non-significance is often considered to
be a definitive finding but as detailed
in this great article this is very
misleading it is entirely plausible to
have a non-statistically significant
confinding but for there to be
potentially a real difference due to
this looking at other statistical data
is also helpful fortunately the
researchers provided us with this when
looking at these additional statistics
there appears to be a potentially real
difference between the frequencies the
effect sizes which measures how big
differences are and the accompanied
confidence intervals Point towards the
three times per week leg experiencing
greatest strength and muscle growth the
graph with individual data plotted also
demonstrates that a number of
individuals experienced notably more
strength and muscle growth with their
three times per week leg yet it's
essential to point out there still were
a number of individuals who saw minimal
differences in gains between the two
training frequencies or even slightly
more gains with a once a week frequency
actually one individual saw markedly
more strength gains with a once per week
leg versus the three times per week leg
this study is perfect experimental
evidence of individual differences with
training frequency some trained
individuals gain notably more with a
three times per week frequency While
others don't
in this week's completely unrelated info
check out these Indian bodybuilders from
the 1920s I ran across from a post by
menu given it was the 1920s you can be
pretty sure they were Natty super
inspiring all right on to the next part
[Music]
some may be thinking surely the results
just outlined State the obvious of
course individual differences exist yet
someone could come along and say humans
are humans we all have muscles
constructed with the same elements the
composition of muscle tissue is going to
be very comparable between humans so
what works for one human should robustly
extend to what works for another human
but experimental data allows us to
rebuttle these assumptions the data
further allows us to inspect how
consistent and how large these
individual differences are perhaps even
more excitingly scientific research
might eventually uncover why these
individual differences exist What
mechanisms cause this individual to
experience markedly more strength gains
when training once versus three times
per week What mechanisms cause some
individuals to grow more training three
times per week While others to not
hopefully sports science research gets
to this point
a great strength of the study was each
subject trained both once and three
times per week one leg trained once a
week while the other leg trained three
times per week this is a powerful study
designed as it rules out genetics
nutrition and outside lifestyle factors
as confounders yet Sports Science Savvy
individuals may be wondering if the
cross-education effect is a concern for
the unaware the cross-education effect
is the phenomenon where training only
one limb can produce gains in the
opposite limb despite that opposite limb
not being directly trained as subjects
train to each leg with a different
training frequency does the
cross-education effect mess up the data
with the muscle growth results it very
likely does not the muscle growth
transfer from one limb to the opposite
seems to be tiny for example this 2005
USA study had 243 men and 342 women
trained only one of their biceps with a
unilateral preacher and concentration
curls the trained by step increased in
cross-sectional area by an average of
18.9 percent however the untrained bicep
only increased in cross-sectional area
by an average of 1.4 percent with
strength the transfer from one limb to
the opposite is more significant the
same 2005 USA study found a trained
bicep increased unilateral preacher
called Wonder at max strength by 54.1
percent while the untrained bicep saw a
10.6 increase in unilateral preacher
curl wondering max strength yet it's
very possible the cross-education effect
is minimized in trained individuals
training both their limbs with different
training variables as done in the study
outlined the fact that we observed an
average difference in strength gains
between the once and three times per
week leg hints at this if the
cross-education effect was an issue we'd
expect a bi-directional transfer of
strength gains between limbs leading to
similar strength gains between legs but
this didn't occur average strength gains
favorite delay trading three times per
week versus once a week
so the study we overviewed was highly
insightful but what does the rest of the
hypertrophy training frequency research
say there was a 2019 meta-analysis on
training frequency anti-purchase fee
that was detailed in my old video on the
topic meta-analysis statistically
combined the results of numerous
individual studies on a given topic and
meta-analyzes are often considered the
highest form of scientific evidence in
all variations of science evidence
hierarchies the meta-analysis found no
difference in muscle growth between
higher and lower frequencies now
remember the study we overviewed in
addition to presenting individual data
still suggests more average muscle with
a three times per week frequency versus
one frequency given the evidence
hierarchy shouldn't we consider that
meta-analysis finding above the average
findings from that single paper in my
perhaps controversial view not
necessarily the methods of the
meta-analysis and included studies
matter a limitation of the mentioned
meta-analysis is they considered the
high and low frequencies specific to the
study for example in one study training
three times per week was classed as a
low frequency while in another study
training three times per week was
classed as a high frequency moreover
many of the included studies in the
meta-analysis are Divergent from the one
we analyzed either differing training
frequencies were compared like once
versus twice a week or six versus three
times per week it's involved training
with fewer than nine weekly sets
involved untrained individuals or
measured muscle growth with less precise
methods like Dexter or skin folds
another extremely important point is all
of these studies compare two different
groups of people unlike the study
outlined in this video each subject did
not train with both training frequencies
so genetics nutrition and outside
lifestyle factors can all confound the
studies included in that meta-analysis
finally linked to this point and over
vital importance the meta-analysis does
not provide us with an insight into
individual differences the new study
does
2018 meta-analysis found strength gains
were similar between lower and higher
frequency training however as was the
case with a hypertrophy meta-analysis
many of the included studies are
Divergent from the one we analyzed
either differing training frequencies
were compared like once versus twice a
week or two versus three times per week
involved training with fewer than 9
weekly sets or involved untrained
individuals all of them also compare two
different groups of people meaning
genetics nutrition and outside lifestyle
factors are potential confounders
[Music]
finally again this meta-analysis does
not provide us with an insight into
individual differences the new study
does
of course the study outlined in the
video only compared a one to three times
per week training frequency it would be
great to see similarly designed studies
comparing other frequencies like two
versus three times per week or even
three versus five times per week at the
end of the day my concluding
recommendations are that if you're
training with a low frequency and seeing
great gains I don't believe you should
change anything based on this new data
remember there are certainly individuals
who see no difference between lower and
high frequencies or even better gains
with lower frequencies however you could
still experiment with higher frequencies
in the future if you wish if you're
training with a lower frequency and
you're not content with the gains You
may wish to experiment with higher
frequencies to see if this can notably
change things the data demonstrates
there are individuals who see greater
gains with higher frequencies
if you've made it here I have a free
ebook you might like The Ultimate Guide
to bench pressing for strength and
hypertrophy with more than 100
scientific references from technique to
training variables to comparisons and
other fascinating science we cover it
all grab it through the link in the
description or comments
[Music]