with how popular my reps have gotten
you'd think the evidence behind them was
Rock Solid the truth is it really
isn't welcome back Dr me wolf here PhD
in sports science with wolf coaching
unfortunately not the creator of Milo
reps although I could call them wolf
reps wolf partials lengthen partials I
can go on for days if you think I should
name them that leave a comment down
below but let's get back to my reps my
reps have gotten a lot more popular
recently but what are myor reps and why
should we care well the best way to find
that out would be to actually read what
the creator of my reps has to say and
that is borly my reps are when you
essentially perform a first set
performing typically 5 to 20 reps and
then instead of taking your usual rest
time of say 1 to 5 minutes you only rest
about 10 to 30 seconds and perform many
sets every 10 to 30 seconds thereafter
so essentially it's one quotequote big
set resting 10 to 30 seconds and then
doing Min sets every 10 to 30 seconds
for as many sets as you want but why
would you even do myor reps like what's
the point exactly well here's the
rationale according to henman's size
principle a relatively well established
principle within Sports Science and
Physiology your body starts recruiting
muscle fibers or rather motor units from
the smallest aka the slowest twitch
fibers and gradually moves it up to the
fastest and biggest muscle fibers as
either Force production requirements
increase for example when you lift a
heavier weight instead of a lighter
weight or as fatigue sets in and certain
fibers are no longer able to contribute
much to force production as would for
example be the case when you're doing a
set of 30 reps and you get to rep 20 so
those biggest fastest twitch muscle
fibers supposedly mostly get recruited
when you're either lifting a
sufficiently heavy weight or when
fatigue is set in such that you need to
recruit those bigger faster twitch
muscle fibers to lift the weight that
you have in front of you and so part of
the idea is that the reason that a set
becomes much more effective when you
take it closer to failure which there is
some evidence for is that it is only
within those last few reps that those
biggest muscle fibers really start
working being exposed to tension and
thus seeing hypertrophy the idea of my
reps is that by only taking 10 to 30
second breaks between the first set and
subsequent sets you maintain that muscle
fiber recruitment in other words those
biggest muscle fibers we really want to
grow are active from the get-go in those
subsequent smaller sets and that's
because the fatigue that you generated
in that first set hasn't had the time to
fully dissipate and so in order to even
start lifting the weight again you would
need to activate those high threshold
big muscle fibers the idea is
essentially if only those last few reps
really Target those most important
muscle fibers how can we get more of
those last few effective reps well enter
myo reps let me give you a poor analogy
let's say for example your favorite food
was this fast food place at the top of a
hill near your house on average you want
to go to that joint once a day and eat
there cuz it's delicious but climbing
this hill it's hard work takes a lot of
time and it's a lot of effort and ultim
Ely it doesn't contribute to you eating
that tasty food so you could make that
climb every single day get up there
after a hard hour of climbing and
eventually have your tasty food but what
if you cut out the middleman and instead
built your house on top of that Hill
next to that fast food joint by building
your own house up there you can remove
the need for that climb alog together
and see more of a benefit okay food
scientist Milo I hear you a very cool
analogy but what does the evidence say
well hold up for a minute we don't
actually have evidence that's there are
no studies on mys looking at muscle
hypertrophy or are there okay hold up
maybe we have some as Bor points out on
his website there has been one Infamous
study that still hasn't been published 2
years later despite being presented at a
conference 2 years ago but let me break
down what the results are unfortunately
there's not a whole lot of detail
available but let me give you what I
know in this study they essentially
compared a my rep approach to a
traditional set approach both groups saw
the same hypertrophy seemingly however
the myre group actually performed about
25% less training volume for the same
hypertrophy so that's certainly
promising but equally until I read the
full manuscript that isn't that much to
go off of is there anything else well
when no direct evidence is available we
can use other Bodies of Evidence to
somewhat inform our understanding of how
this might work first off as I mentioned
earlier in the video repetitions perform
closer to failure where more motor units
and muscle fibers might be being
activated do seem to result in more
hypertrophy as was demonstrated in this
metanalysis by Robinson and colleagues
so on that level when you're talking
about a given set not a myre approach
there does seem to be a benefit to
performing more reps close to failure
another body of evidence we can lean on
is the rest time research indeed one of
the defining characteristics about myps
is that they essentially take very short
rest durations they rest for about 10 to
30 seconds between sets well Things Fall
Apart a little bit here you generally
find worse hypertrophy when you rest for
less than 60 seconds compared to more
than 60 seconds between sets however the
big issue with using this research to
inform our understanding of my reps is
that they generally equate for the hard
number of sets performed not so much for
the volume load and therefore they often
perform the same number of effective
reps in the shorter rest versus longer
rest groups indeed if you do three sets
whether you rested for 1 minute or 3
minutes you'll still get the same number
of effective reps if both sets or all
sets are taken to failure in this study
by sh and feling colleagues for example
on rest times they dropped weight set to
set in order to keep participants in the
Target rep range all of this means that
between the longer rest time group and
the shorter time group the number of
effective reps was actually quite
similar however there is one study that
didn't quite do this specifically in a
previous study by long-going colleagues
that I've broken down in this video on
rest times here they compared four
approaches approach one involved resting
for 1 minute between sets approach two
involved resting for 3 minutes between
sets approach three involved resting for
1 minute between sets but doing
additional sets with the same weight to
make up for the additional volume to the
3-minute group saw and finally approach
four involved resting for 3in minutes
between sets but doing fewer sets so as
to equate overall tonnage with approach
number one resting 1 minute between sets
in other words in all of these groups
they maintain the same walking weight
the whole time and so if they were able
to perform 80% of their Max for say
eight reps on the first set by set four
they may have gotten only five reps and
in the short rest group they would have
been performing more sets all of which
would have included a lot of effective
reps compare this to the longer rest
3-minute group they were doing fewer
sets and therefore fewer effective reps
compared to the short rest group that
was getting in the same volume load or
tonnage to summarize the 1 minute rest
group that made up for additional volume
load got more effective reps in than the
long rest group so essentially that is
testing the concept of Mya reps thus
taking shorter rest times but getting
only effective reps in on each of those
subsequent sets actually lead to more
hypertrophy and well no they saw the
same hypertrophy in the one minute group
that did additional sets and thus called
more effective reps in compared to the
3-minute group that got fewer effective
reps in and so especially if volume load
was equated for if Mya reps were super
beneficial you would expect to see
greater hypertrophy in this one minute
group alas they didn't the final area of
evidence that we can lean on that is
somewhat similar to my reps would be
drop sets indeed they are somewhat
similar concept to my reps in that
you're shortening rest times such that
each subsequent set in this case with a
lower weight should be close to failure
and thus contain exclusively effective
reps and we do have a metanalysis by
Coleman and colleages comparing the
hypertrophy from traditional set
training to drop set training finding
similar hypertrophy with the kicker that
they often took 50 to 70% less time to
complete their sessions so is this
strong evidence for mys in my opinion no
and here's why in these studies they
often equated for volume load in other
words the drop set group performed
additional sets as a means to make up
for the difference of performance
additionally when you're doing Drop sets
we're talking about taking no rest
between sets so just like with the rest
time research there there is a bit of a
gap to bridge between this and my reps
so you may see similar hypertrophy if
you do additional sets to make up for
the reduced performance this is a pretty
for cry from the hype I see online for
my reps though to summarize the rest
time data is generally against the idea
of my reps being as effective as
straight sets on a set per set basis
likewise the data on drop sets is also
against the idea of mys being as
effective as straight sets on a set per
set basis and the only study on mys
still hasn't been published 2 years
later so here's my take on myor reps mys
are one of many tools you can use to
increase training density how much
training you can get in in a given
amount of time while being close to
failure however because they haven't
been studied much if at all directly I
would rely on other techniques that have
more evidence behind them such as for
example drop sets or even better if you
potentially don't want to compromise on
Effectiveness would be paired super sets
I'll have videos on both drop sets and
paired super sets down in the
description finally let me tell you how
to implement my reps if you did want to
implement it within your training first
perform one activation set of 5 to 20
reps then rest for as long as it takes
you to get another five reps with the
same weight do another set then do at
least as many sets as you would for
straight sets if you're converting
straight sets to my rep sets I would
consider doing about 50% more sets at
least so if you want to get the stimulus
from four straight sets in for example I
would recommend at least six my rep sets
that is the video if you enjoy enjoyed
me breaking down the science on mys what
little there is consider commenting
liking subscribing if there's any other
techniques or topics you want to see me
tackle from a sports science perspective
leave a comment down below and I'll get
to it in the meantime my subscribers
have a good day and I will see you in
the next video
peace but let me break down what the
results are let me actually look at the
results cuz I don't remember them