percentage-based training is for the
most part outdated and over complicated
it's a pain in the ass you need to
actually determine what your wonderful
Max is or might be so if you want to
determine what your Wonder of Max is to
be really accurate in prescribing load
and say that 80 really is 80 you would
need to have someone test their Max and
not just once you would need to have
someone test their Max regularly because
their Max might change so you would have
to be consistently testing your max in
order to be as accurate as possible as
it turns out there's quite a bit of
variability in how many reps different
people can do at the same percentage of
their Max so actually one person might
be able to do 15 reps with 80 of the max
so if you just prescribe six repetitions
or let's say 10 repetitions at eighty
percent of Max thinking that's going to
be a set of failure for that person that
person might have five reps of attack or
they might be going past failure they're
just better tools available there's both
reps and reserve and rpe first they're a
lot easier to use you don't need to do
much math at all to know I could have
done two more apps it's very simple
people seem to be pretty accurate in
estimating wrestling Reserve it's a
pretty accurate tool and ultimately gets
pretty close to what we want to
prescribe fundamentally