here what I think is the most effective
po day I have ever designed using the
most upto-date scientific
research welcome back Dr M wolf with you
today PhD in sports science with wolf
coaching bringing you a super effective
pull day that you can use as part of
your push pull likes program let me
break down what makes this session so
effective so you can design other
sessions just like it in your program
and build allw muscle first any workout
you do within your program should fit
within your program this is a PO day
it's designed to be repeated twice a
week to get you to reach the effective
volume guidelines we have from the
research can you do this once a week and
still see progress yes but for your best
gains do it twice a week and have slight
variations and how each day looks this
poll day will have a slight upper back
or rowing emphasis so for your second
poll Day within the program try having a
slight lat emphasis or a slight vertical
pulling emphasis if you wanted to modify
this into being an upper body day more
so try the AR old routine try super
setting chest and backw and try
splitting this up into two days for
example you could superet a chest
pressing variation with one of the
Roaring variations within this P day and
suet one of the bicep exercises one of
the tricep exercises and in general I
typically prefer upper lower splits over
Push Pull leg splits Push Pull leg
splits really only work super
effectively if you have time to
consistently Tre and six days a week if
you don't you're not training each
muscle group at least twice a week which
leaves some gains on the table if you
want more information on what the best
routine is check out the video above and
it'll take you through all that next up
to make for an optimal session we want
to limit redundancy on a pooling you
have a lot of different muscles in
tutorium you have your upper back your
lats your rear delts your biceps your
forearms your upper traps and
importantly if you do a lot of block for
one area you eventually get diminishing
returns so we don't want to do a ton of
volume for the same muscle group over
and over again at the expensive other
muscle groups next up a good session has
really effective rep ranges and based on
the research we have
that rep range is between 5 and 50
repetitions as long as you go close
enough to failure any amount of reps
between 5 and 50% set will maximize
hypertrophy but the caveat is that most
people struggle to go quite as close to
failure when you get into super light
High rep work for instance a scoping
review by our own research Group found
that when people went much above 12 reps
their accuracy engaging how close to
failure they are really breaks down so
for feasibility and for making sure you
train sufficiently close to failure
we'll be training mostly in the 5 to 15
rep range however since there is a
benefit to be had potentially from
combining different rep ranges as was
evidenced in an in thehouse metanalysis
BAC Robinson will still be using a
variety of rep Rangers across the
session and across the whole training
week to potentially get a slight Edge in
overall muscle growth next up in the
checklist we want to use a maximumly
effective volume we see really solid
hypertrophy for most muscles between
around 12 to 20 sets per week per muscle
however based on some more recent
research around eight studies now there
might be a benefit to going over 20 sets
per week per muscle and so we're
shooting for about 5 to 15 sets for most
muscles within this session so that if
you repeat it twice a week you get
between around 10 to 30 sets per week
per muscle and you land within that
really effective weekly volume range for
all the muscles being traed next for an
optimal workout we want to make sure
we're picking the maxim effective
relative intensity taking sets as close
to failure as is necessary to maximize
muscle building based on a met
aggression by Robinson and colleagues
we'll want to take sets pretty close to
failure if frames to maximize
hypertrophy however to minimize the
impact of fatigue throughout the session
we'll want to stay a little bit further
away from failure early in the session
and go a little bit closer to failure
later in the session because going
closer to failure also causes more
fatigue next for all of the muscle
groups we're training on this day AK the
back biceps lats rear dels upper traps
forearms You Name It We want to make
sure we pick really effective exercises
I have a whole series on that very topic
somewhere up here I'll have the links in
the description for you to check out and
we'll be picking really effective
exercises based on that series to give
you a quick overview of what makes an
exercise better or worse for hypertrophy
here's what good exercises for
hypertrophy usually have in common first
they need to Target one of the primary
functions of the muscle we're trying to
Target for the lats for example that
could be shoulder extension second as
much as possible the target muscle
should be limiting factor next the
exercise we pick should be stretch
friendly that is to say it places the
target muscle in its length and position
it's pretty difficult in that lengthen
position and ideally it is also lengthen
partial friendly next where ever
possible we'll want to minimize the
involvement of other nont muscle groups
so if we can avoid being bent over for
example and involving the glutes
adductors and hamstrings in a Ru
variation we should probably do so and
finally for some people this is a pretty
big factor time efficiency certain
exercises are more time efficient than
others so pay attention to these factors
as you select your exercises and you'll
be in a really good position to create
an effective back workout we'll also
want to make sure we're resting for
sufficiently long between sets to
maximize muscle ability I have a whole
video coming out on rest times that's
either out on the channel already so
check it out it is or stay tuned if it's
not but based on some more recent data
resting for about 1 to 2 minutes between
sets for hypertrophy is a great starting
place maybe closer to 1 minute for
isolation movements and closer to 2
minutes for compound movements
throughout the session we'll want to
make sure we use good technique on all
exercises I'm actually a co-author on a
paper on that exact topic but let me
break down what the Hallmarks of good
technique for muscle building really are
based on the evidence we want to one use
a tempo of about 2 to 8 seconds per rep
maybe a slightly more explosive
concentric and a slightly more
controlled Ecentric phase two we'll want
to emphasize the stretch position either
with a full range of motion making sure
to get a full stretch on each rep or
using lengthen partials just doing the
half rep in a lengthen position and
finally we'll want to minimize
involvement of non- torget muscle groups
when it comes to back training I think
this is a common mistake which is to
involve other muscle groups that we not
really trying to grow for example
turning a bent over B row into like a
row deadlift hybrid this probably
doesn't do much for your back
hypertrophy but it does add a l fatigue
for your hip extensors and the final
factor in a good session is exercise
order now based on a recent meth
analysis by Nunes and colleagues
exercise order doesn't hugely matter
however based on another study that's
come out since then there may be a
marginal effect of exercise order on
hypertrophy such that whatever you train
first gets a slightly better training
effect so we'll want to start this
session with whatever we care about the
most if you really care about growing
bigger biceps for example you may want
to start your session with curls and
then move on to your back work in
general I also think it's worth
sequencing exercises in a way that
maximizes performance across the session
so if starting with curls you find that
your pull Downs usually take a big hit
but the other way around your curls
don't take a hit it may be worth
starting with pull Downs essentially the
sequencing that maximizes performance
across the session as a good rule of
thumb all else being equal compound
movements should come before isolation
movements because these often have a
larger technical component and these hit
the most muscle groups and thus will
have the big impact on your physique
overall it is probably worth doing them
when you're freshest but in general
exercise order is not a huge variable
just follow these guidelines and you'll
be more than fine and without further
Ado here's what I think is the most
effective pole I could design today 2024
based on the evidence keep in mind this
PO has a slight upper back focus for
your first exercise start with a t-ball
row or the incline dumbbell row
alternatively if you have them a chest
supported tbar row is even better than a
tball row and a prime machine row is
just
perform four to five sets of 5 to 10
repetitions taking the first set to
about three reps in reserve and the last
set all the way to one rep in reserve
resting for about 90 seconds to 120
seconds between sets what makes these
exercises so effective well for one they
all allow for a great stretch you can
get a full stretch in terms of
positioning on all these exercises plus
the tar row options both chest supported
row and the regular one and the prime
machine emphasize the length and
position also through tension if you set
it up correctly on the tar variations
the moment arm decreases as you shorten
the VAC musculature likewise if you set
up a prime machine properly it
preferentially lows the stretch position
conversely if you like the incline
dumbbell row it's a great option because
it's very time efficient you grab the
dumbbells and you get going minus the
bent over tball row all these options
are chest supported which reduces the
involvement of other muscle groups and
potentially reduces overall fatigue
generated finally especially on
something like a Toro variation or the
inand variation doing partials can be a
great way to emphasize the stretch even
more so we've started the session with a
rowing variation for the upper back next
we'll be performing an exercise for lats
and terce major muscle predominantly I
personally like the overhand close grip
pull down but any pullup or pull down
variation will do you'll be performing
three to four sets of 10 to 15
repetitions starting the first set with
about two repetitions in reserve and
taking the last set all the way to
failure between sets rest for about 1 to
2 minutes just like the incline lbell
Row the pull down is essentially Plug
and Play you just select the weight on
the stack and you get going so it's a
pretty time efficient exercise pull
Downs May have a slight Edge over
pull-ups on account of being seated
which is always nice and also in terms
of being flexible when it comes to the
rep range being used most people can do
more than about 15 pull-ups but on pull
Downs you can essentially do as many
reps as you want so as far as
versatility goes the pull down is a
slightly better option once again
because of the resistance curve in a
pullup or a pull down it'll be hardest
as you shorten the back musculature so
lengthen partials just doing half reps
in stretch position or going should be a
great way to emphasize the stretch even
more alternatively you could do length
and partials after failure while this
could be a bit more fatiguing since this
is the last lad exercise for the session
it's not a bad idea after the pull down
we have a second row variation because
we've already done a heavier row
variation we'll do a lighter row
variation with your chest supported in
this case any sort of Chess supported
machine row is great including the prime
machine or a chest supported T Bar row
even perform three to four sets of 15 to
20 repetitions taking the first set to
about two reps of failure and for the
last set go all the way to failure rest
for about 1 and 1/2 to 2 minutes between
sets if you want to do flexion rows
upper back rows in which you
intentionally flex and extend the spine
I think machine rows are the best place
to do them while you can absolutely do
flexion rows on any rowing variation
like a barbell row or a cable row
machine rows tend to be the best place
to do them for one reason in rowing
variations without a chest pad it is
very easy to just flex and extend your
hips thinking you're flexing and
extending your spine but your back
musculature the RoR p a specifically is
responsible for spinal extension not hip
flexion and extension and so if we want
to Target that muscle as I mentioned
earlier we need to Target its function
and with a chest pad it becomes a lot
more intuitive to keep your chest pinned
against the pad but just round over and
extend thereby actually targeting the
erector SP muscle because this might
cause some stimulus but also fatigue for
your erector SP a muscle if you're
running a push pull leg split I would
probably and in general this is probably
true run it as push legs pull this just
increases the likelihood of your lower
back being recovered by the time you
train legs again just like for the pull
down because this is the last back
exercise you'll be doing within this
session feel free to do some partials
after you hit for range of motion
failure or alternatively just to
partials now that we've done a couple
exercises for upper back and even one
for our lats let's move on to some of
the smaller muscle groups first let's
train our biceps for the biceps I
recommend the bench cable curl with a
dumbbell preacher curl perform 3 to five
sets of 10 to 15 repetitions taking the
first set to about one rep in reserve
and the last set to about zero reps in
reserve rest for about 60 to 90 seconds
between sets both of these bicep
exercises emphasize the stretch position
if you're looking for a bit more time
efficiency consider doing the D preacher
c as you just grab it on Bel and get
going if you're looking for even more of
a stretch Focus consider the bench cable
curl now that we've trained the biceps
we'll be moving on to an exercise
targeting the rear delts for the rear
delts and some of the upper back
musculature I recommend the rear delt
cable crossover perform two to four sets
of 10 to 20 repetitions taking the first
set about a rep away from failure and
the last set all the way to failure rest
for about 60 to 90 seconds between sets
during this exercise if you perform it
properly you'll feel the greatest rear
do stretch you've probably ever felt in
your training set up the cables around
shoulder height and essentially just
perform the opposite motion of a cable
chest crossover if getting cables at
your gym is difficult or you don't have
cables consider doing rear D machine
flies instead so we have now trained the
back the biceps and the rear DS with a
total of five exercises this is sort of
the core of the pull day right you've
trained the biggest muscle groups in the
body as far as your pull day goes pretty
effectively but if you wanted to get
extra credit or train certain muscle
groups that otherwise don't get hit
super well but that aren't big enough to
really care about for most people his
what to do you could do some additional
upper trap walk forarm walk or add in
even more bicep walk because rows likely
don't Target the biceps super well based
on one study we have comparing the
dumbbell row to a dumbbell curl finding
substantially less hypertrophy from the
dumbbell row doing some extra bicep
training might not be a bad call let me
give you some quick fire options to
Target the upper traps forarms and
biceps respectively for the upper traps
consider the seated dumbbell shrug
performing two to five sets of 10 to 20
repetitions with about a minute of rest
between sets for the forearms consider
dumbbell wrist curls potentially super
seted with Dumbo wrist extensions for 2
to five sets of 10 to 20 repetitions
rest for about 30 to 60 seconds between
sets as you'll be resting the flexors
while you train the extensors and vice
versa and finally if you opt to add in
another bicep exercise do 2 to 5 Second
sets of 15 to 20 repetitions on
whichever bicep exercise you didn't pick
earlier so if you start with the
preacher curl do the bench cable curl or
if you start at the bench cable curl do
the preach curl that's the PO let's
review the checklist and make sure we
effectively trained our back musculature
first we made sure to limit redundancy
by including one to maybe two exercises
per muscle group within the session we
included a variety of joint functions
throughout the session making sure that
we get a complete stimulus for the
muscles across the body and we don't
just get overly redundant we also made
sure to include a variety of repr angels
all of these rep ranges fell between
about 5 and 25 making sure we're getting
a really effective stimulus for
hypertropia in total many of the muscle
groups train within this session are
getting maybe five to 15 sets total
within this session for example the
upper back musculature that we're
primarily training through rows and pull
Downs is getting somewhere between
around 8 and 15 sets throughout the
session we made sure to take each set
sufficiently close to failure to get a
robust hypertrophy stimulus in
additionally we were a little bit closer
to failure as the session progressed we
picked exercises methodically making
sure that the have the homeworks of good
exercises for hypertrophy based on some
more recent research we're also resting
for sufficiently long between sets to
maximize hypertrophy around 1 to 2
minutes for most exercises we generally
started with more compound exercises and
then moved into more isolation style
exercises but if you're focusing on
certain muscle groups feel free to
change the order around a little bit it
may or may not be of benefit finally as
far as technique goes we made sure to
use good technique emphasizing the
stretch controlling the Ecentric
efficiently not involving other muscle
groups unnecessarily like doing some
sort of dead lift row hybrid and so as
far as a really effective session for
hypertrophy goes this takes those boxes
that is the video broke down a lot of
signs on how to design good training
sessions within your program programming
one-onone and what a good effective pole
day looks like if you enjoyed this video
leave a comment down below like the
video subscribe let me know if there's
any other videos you'd like to see me do
what's that you don't know how to
program your poll sessions and you would
really appreciate it if someone created
an app that took care of it for you oh
well that's funny cuz we've developing
an app just like that for about 2 to 3
years now and that app is called myo
adapt my adapt is a training app that
essentially does everything a good
evidence-based online coach would do for
you for a fraction of the price it
creates a Cutting Edge individualized
program based on the most recent
research for you you if for example you
want to bring up your lats it will take
that into consideration and design the
best program for you we constantly
update it to make it as effective as
possible based on a new research that
we're involved in designed by several
people with phds and sports science it's
a really effective training app and I'm
confident in saying there's nothing else
like it out there so if you'd like to
get notified when it launches consider
signing up on the email list at myod
app.com when it launches you'll get an
email and if you decide to sign up
you'll be locked in at a lower price
than you would otherwise ever get in the
meantime if you'd like me to coach you
check out wolf coaching.com and we can
make that happen that is the video we're
AI have a great day enjoy your back
gains and peace