[Music]
[Applause]
folks getting giant calves is arguably
the most important thing in life and
we're gonna show you how in an
industrial park yep that's what things
have come to nowadays let's figure out
how not to screw up our calf training
remember that target of training calves
is the gastrocnemius muscle and the
soleus muscle that's deep to it we can
do both with standing dumbbell calf
raises let's get to it
full range of motion not doing it is a
huge unbelievably common problem in calf
training the thing is your calves
respond super well to a ton of actual
movement the problem is you won't be
nearly as strong as you think you are
when you try it however you are here to
grow your calves in size not get the
world's strongest partial calf dumbbell
raise which is a stupid title to have
anyway so when you do your calf raises
make sure that you go all the way down
until you are physically incapable of
descending you can arguably sit there
for half a second to make sure you've
hit it and apply a deep stretch and then
come all the way up to the peak
contraction where you are up on the
balls of your feet that is how you know
also for a split second at the top that
you've done a good rep every single rep
should thus take like a little while
because it takes a little while to make
sure you've hit bottom and you've hit
top and failure occurs when you cannot
hit your peak contraction anymore not
when you just decided okay now I'm
barely moving next mistake is not
controlling the ista eccentric phase the
eccentric phase the lowering the descent
is super-important to growth and
especially seem so for the calves if
you've ever had any experience and
training them it's also super easy to
slack off just start counting reps doing
a ton of weight and not taking your time
you don't have to do five seconds on the
way down but you have to strictly
control all the way down in the best way
I found to make sure that that happens
go slow and also give it a half second
or a second at the very bottom to get
that deep stretch and then come back up
that really tends to prevent rushing a
lot of the time
next common mistake in a dumbbell calf
raise is to bend your knees when you're
coming up it's a little easier because
you can do more weight but it may
actually take some tension off of the
calves themselves and specifically off
the gastrocnemius which you really want
to be training a lot when you're doing
this exercise that's that diamonds pop
part of your calf so make sure you keep
your leg straight don't be tempted to do
a little jump at the end bending your
knees yes that counts as an extra rep
but it doesn't give you as much growth
potential as keeping it strict and
potentially taking failure earlier next
mistake is the pursuit of an excessively
extreme strictness some folks think the
calf raise should be done off your very
tippy toes off of the actual stairs and
think that when you come up at the top
of a calf raise you should again come up
on your very tippy toes it turns out
that a lot of that may be limited by
your foot strength and a lot of times
when you're just on your tippy toes your
central nervous system won't even drive
that hard to your calves because it
doesn't think you're stable so it ends
up costing you calf activation even
though mechanically from a technical
perspective it loads the calves the most
hypothetically if you could turn them on
instead of trying to go for the tippy
toes idea both have your calves only or
your feet rather only half way off make
sure the balls of your feet are solidly
on the actual step and then the rest of
your foot is off that's totally fine
anything more is too much extra credit
in a bad way and when you come up just
make sure to come up on the balls of
your feet and you don't have to come up
on your toes alright next mistake is to
come unprepared for the actual gripping
component grip
what the hell you have trouble holding a
dumbbell not that grip the grip of your
feet so first of all try to wear the
best grip iasts use when you train your
calves you'll notice I'm not wearing my
famous Crocs
because Crocs are a stupid shoe to lift
in if you actually have to grip your
feet to the ground
right so I use a pretty decent shoe here
just a regular shoe has a nice grippy
surface and on most surfaces it has a
good bite and it allows me not to slip
around too much if you do find yourself
slipping it's okay what you can do is
readjust every couple of reps but that
really does get annoying and it's
something you'd rather not do here's the
thing if you find that your shoes aren't
working super well you can even try just
your socks sometimes that works better
sometimes just your bare feet if your
gym or whatever will allow you to do
that sometimes bare feet really are the
best okay and if you have a choice of
surface find the surface or rather than
a step that's good some steps are really
laminated some steps are really carpeted
and sometimes they're too slick and it
doesn't allow you to actually have a ton
of stability other steps are better find
the surface and the shoe or the whatever
you wear on your feet including nothing
that gives you as much grip as possible
what about foot placement toe angle and
so on and so forth the thing is there's
no correct answer here to sort of
correct answers 1 whatever you feel best
at your calves and isn't bothering your
ankles and 2 it's okay to use multiple
arrangements of feet and toe angles in
order to just have some variation so use
whatever you want
give it some thought of using one style
for a month
another style for another month and if
you have a position that you're trying
to work on that just absolutely doesn't
feel great in your ankles it doesn't
feel great for your calves you don't
have to do it next mistake is messing up
the holding the weight part I know it
seems super simple folks to last this
question so I'll just answer it if you
have a dumbbell which arm do you hold it
in well you switch arms back and forth
that gives a really a lot of balance if
you feel like one side holding the
dumbbell trains one of the calves better
it just happens to be your smaller calf
just do most of them like that what we
don't want you to do then anyway you put
weight on your body whether it's a
backpack or dumbbell is totally fine
what we don't want you to do is not hold
on to something
stability is critical for getting as
much force output and stimulation and
thus growth out of your calves super
super critical
so if you
absolutely don't want to do is do like a
freeform gymnastic style calf raise
where you don't hold on anything people
try to do barbell calf raises not in a
Smith's machine but a regular bra and
they'll step on some kind of plate and
try to do calf raises like that with
nothing stabilizing them they are
missing out a huge huge huge amount so
grab something nice and sturdy that
doesn't move like a stair railing and
get to work and every now and again you
can switch the dumbbell side to side the
last mistake my experience is going too
heavy on calf raises sets of five to ten
are fine for a lot of other exercises I
tend to notice the especially on calf
raises on the stairs there's not enough
stability the reps are very difficult to
pull off with good technique and the
mind muscle connection gets replaced
with just trying to lift the weight
becomes really difficult to control the
eccentric to get a peak contraction and
actually make progress it seems to be
much better for most people to do stair
calf raises in the 10 to 20 range really
in the 20 to 30 rep range on a first set
is where a lot of the magic with calves
happens yes it sucks yes it's going to
burn yes it's gonna hurt but it's also
gonna grow your calves a lot that
doesn't mean that you never train in the
other rep ranges you can probably not
with this exercise if you're gonna do
heavier calves you probably want to hold
a 90 pound dumbbell in your hand you
might use a calf machine or calves on
the leg press or some other kind of way
that is more stable they can let you
load more weight to do lower repetitions
so sets of twenty to thirty a lot of
metabolite stuff and here's the deal
a lot of times your calves clear lactate
and really don't have any other systemic
limiting factors they clear lactate
really fast so what you can do is take
five to ten seconds of rest between
every set and you burn your calves out
no problem stimulating massive gains you
don't have to rest two to three minutes
between calf raises it can be something
that now not only you get done quick but
getting it done quick may actually help
with a hypertrophy process also if you
can get through calves in two minutes
you might be able to be more inclined to
Train calves four times a week like you
probably should be and then you actually
get big calves cuz let's be honest
calves are pretty boring to Train a lot
of people skip out because who wants to
slap eight plates on a calf machine do a
partial range of motion the
like crap have to rest for two minutes
and look at the clock and nothing's
happening get them done quick get them
done right and you're gonna have bigger
calves for sure folks thank you so much
for tuning in if you want to answer some
questions in the comments that's great
if you want to set up for other
techniques let us know see you next time
[Music]