[Music]
hey folks dr. michael here for
renaissance period ization going through
the renaissance diet 2.0 book adherence
chapter chapter 7 really really big deal
we're just gonna breeze through it
there's so much more to read and learn
about all the intricacies here the book
link is right below in the description
if you want to click on it by all means
please do here's the deal with adherence
it is critical because all of the right
plans don't mean squat if you can't do
them consistently then you can write
calorie deficit into a diet if you eat
enough cheeseburgers you don't adhere to
that deficit it doesn't matter what you
wrote down you're not gonna lose the fat
that you want if you gain or trying to
gain muscle and you only overeat
calories like you're supposed to on
three days of the week and on four days
you under eat by a long shot you're not
gaining a whole lot of much they're not
gonna gain the way you need to be
gaining as much muscle as you'd like
because GZ you're just not doing a good
job actually sticking to the plan
adherence is absolutely critical it is
just as important as the rest of the
plan combined to put this another way if
you have a mad plan like not that great
fundamentally effective but not amazing
like it gets the calories right and only
messes up the macros half way if you
have a really good adherence you're
gonna get real good results you'll
results will be fine and dandy on the
other hand if you have the ultimate plan
you know you pay a renaissance
periodization coach with a PhD and an RD
and a world championship medal under
their belt to design you the greatest
diet ever known to humankind and you
stick to it one day a week you're gonna
do way worse than that person that just
got weird diet off of the internet all
right but adhere to it adherence is that
critical the thing is adherence can be
explained best by multi stage model it's
not all things to all people in all
times so this multi stage model has
basically six stages all that here ins
and they work in a time scale fashion
when you start a plan certain things are
important in the first couple of days
and weeks some other factors are
important as the plan unfolds over weeks
and months some other factors become
important let's look at all of them
first thing inspiration inspiration is
the jolt of energy that gets you to
actually start on doing a diet right
without inspiration you're not going
anywhere you have to be in the literal
sense be inspired to do something it
doesn't have to be looks grandiose
singing on the rooftops kind of thing it
can be a little as you know what I gotta
get any more protein because I want to
gain muscle that's it it's technically
inspiration now
inspiration is just a fleeting emotion
it needs to be backed up or something
more solid and more consistent we'll get
to that but if you want to help folks
get inspired how do you do that well you
want to bring people up not down
alright you know what look at some
wannabe like you fat piece of crap you
should be ashamed of yourself that's
just gonna make them hate you because
they're free people at a free world
right they're not gonna deal with that
crap as well I shouldn't but if you're
like hey you know um you won't ever want
to kind of maybe look at your diet to to
feel better and look better and they
might be like oh yeah sure you bringing
them up and you're helping them solve a
problem that might inspire them to do
something so another one is if you're
gonna show transformation photos and
videos and we have tons of those on our
Renaissance person @rp strengths and
instagrams tons of transformations we
actually have so many transformations we
have our own Instagram account dedicated
transformations now called ant RP
transformations thousands of those the
best kind of show folks are the
realistic ones to their levels okay if
you're gonna show pro bodybuilder
transformations they better be of other
pro bodybuilders but if you show regular
folks that are just trying to lose some
fat gain some muscle transformations you
don't want to necessarily show like a
bikini supermodel getting from
ridiculous-looking to absurd looking you
might want to show someone who's like
man not so great a shape get in some
pretty good shape people can really get
inspired by that because well maybe I
can do it too it's very realistic and of
course last but not least you want to
lead by example look if you're like
eating cheesecake you know out of a huge
bowl off the cheesecake plate you know I
go you know you should room
mmm start eating better what are you
talking about what do you know about
eating better but if you're eating good
meals if you're fall a structured diet
people kind of know that like if you're
that person in the office with your
Tupperware meals in the fridge another
co-worker comes in and they're like what
you in there you're like well funny you
should ask blah blah blah it was
interesting and then there all of a
sudden curious about changing their diet
because you led by example you're a
great shape you're eating a certain way
maybe they get some curious so if you're
looking to inspire people if you're a
coach and help others there are some
good tips for you inspiration doesn't
last long it fizzles away sometimes in
seconds right you see a cool movie and
you're like yeah I'm gonna get in shape
anyway pizza and as long as that lasted
right or you know minutes and hours
sometimes days but rarely we needed to
be replaced by something more consistent
that more consistent is motivation okay
motivation is great because it gets
improved by your success its downside is
that it's kind of oscillating sometimes
some string of hours or days your
motivation will be incredible
you'll just be bashing through your diet
checking all the boxes doing everything
it takes and sometimes your motivation
is really low like if folks say well I'm
not motivated today I you know I don't
want to eat super healthy or super well
you know and all of a sudden it's not
super reliable so motivation has its
problems but it is a big key of that
intermediate phase of dieting you've got
to make sure you get motivated but
here's the next question
how do we get people motivated let's say
we've inspired them what's the
difference in inspiration and motivation
well motivation has to be goal specific
right you get inspired it's a push let's
do something you get motivated by a goal
hey here's the something we can do and a
goal has to be specific that's the best
way to generate motivation someone can
be inspired to lose weight but they can
be motivated to lose 15 pounds in 3
months does that make sense if you get
someone who is inspired and you want to
help motivate them make them set a
realistic yet challenging goal and all
of a sudden there's your focus of
motivation right some people even say
that they're like I really need a gold
yet motivated they're saying something
very simple that's very obviously true
right it has to be specific I want to
get in shape is not
enough once they have a goal and they
have motivation we're off to a good
start here's the thing next principle
next stage in the process motivation is
gonna be down sometimes when it's up all
as well when it's down all it's not if
you adhere to a diet 50% of the time
like on the upsides if you really don't
adhere to it on the downside it's you
can wipe away pretty much all the
benefits for example if you generate a
caloric deficit on most days but the
degree of the surplus you generate on
the days when you're off the diet is so
big that it covers the deficit you lose
zero pounds and pretty much a zero fat
that's a really bad move we're gonna
mean something that when motivation dips
down we want to fill those gaps in we
have to have a commitment to say look
even when I'm not motivated I'm still
gonna do what it takes
that is called intention you have to be
intentioned about saying I'm gonna stick
to the plan
the best way to help someone be
intentioned is to develop an actual plan
there has to be a process to stick to
you can't be intentioned with goals
right you can't say I want only 15
pounds in 3 months Maddon you know I'm
gonna run the diet cuz of that yeah
that's motivating but that still
oscillates up and down sometimes it
seems like yeah that 15 pounds that's it
you know I'm gonna take it and sometimes
it seems miles away no I don't even
bother where you might forget about it
all together sometimes when you're
really low on motivation intention fills
the gaps in the down swings of
motivation by saying yeah I don't care
how I feel I'm still hitting that diet
that diet is the key to answer how to
bring up intention that has to be a diet
a process it doesn't matter if you make
your own diet using our book you can buy
some of our templates you can use a
variety of other digital resources we
have even a live coach to help you
generate a plan and stick to it
or you can go to the many numerous other
science evidence-based websites and
outlets that can help you generate a
great planet doesn't have to be us by
any stretch of the imagination you can
even make the plan completely by
yourself stop watching this video right
now and make a plan the key is to have a
plan so that when someone says hey are
you sticking to your plan you have to
have a plan to stick to because remember
if you're just trying to eat a little
healthier and go
the 15 pounds down the line what's a
little healthier you can trick yourself
and all sorts of things
pizzas healthier than eating rocks I
guess so meet pizza and gotta gotta get
those fats in right it's got protein in
it I think right definitely carbs so you
can get relaxed and have very low
intention or very unsettled intention if
you don't have a plan if you have a plan
boom four meals a day four meals a day
four meals a day when your motivation is
high four meals a day is easy when your
motivation is low your intention is up
here now here's the deal next principle
you can have all the intention in the
world but as you can probably tell the
intention is just a hope it's a dream
it's a promise to yourself I'm gonna do
something no matter what it doesn't have
any oomph behind it where does the Eve
come from we get the power we get from
discipline discipline is the commitment
to saying look I have this intent of
hitting my meals I'm gonna do what it
takes to actually do it discipline is
the fuel for that more particularly
discipline is something that uses
willpower to accomplish your adherence
to bring your adherence up to where it
needs to be the good thing is is it it
friggin works right you just gotta just
do what it takes and discipline it will
take you there some of the thrill just
implanted our diet it's gonna be a
success
the downside is or the cavity it really
is that willpower is a finite it can be
used up within a minute within an hour
within a day it recharges but it doesn't
recharge from too big of a depletion and
sometimes you can get so low on
willpower you can burn out or
temporarily fizzle out and have some
really bad days you can't use willpower
forever but if you're going to use
willpower via discipline how do you
encourage people to be disciplined
here's the real reality of the matter
there's many ways to go about it tons of
them are in this book but the easiest
way for me to say it is this you got to
talk to the folks you're helping with
their diets sometimes even to yourself
and say listen there's gonna be tough
times and you're gonna have to do what
it takes you're gonna have to honor your
intentions it's great that you have this
plan it's not always gonna be roses it's
not always going to be you know
the easiest thing in the world is people
like to say well I'm not I wasn't
feeling motivated night and eat my meals
it doesn't matter when you are motivated
you your meals when you're not motivated
you discipline you use your willpower
and you eat your meals if you give
people that pep talk and they know that
the hard times are coming it's not going
to be a surprise to them and they're
gonna be like ok it's ok that I'm
struggling my coach told me about this
right the upside it works the downside
it doesn't work super well in the long
term because eventually you just run
yourself a grouch of gritting your teeth
for forever right that's where habit
comes in our fifth and second-to-last
construct habit is basically you get so
automated with a lot of the stuff it
starts to take that motivation a graph
that oscillation and it lifts the whole
graph up because it makes it here it's
much easier and the downsides are
smaller and the upsides are just net
higher than they used to be so what
habit does is it basically starts to
shorten the oscillations of that curve
and lift that entire curve so then all
of a sudden you know it just doesn't
take a whole lot of discipline and thus
willpower to get done what you need to
get done and dieting some of you folks
that have been in fitness for a while
might be amiss might resonate with you
people that aren't in fitness made me
watch you eat meals or watch you workout
and and they're not in fitness and all
is like man you know that's really
impressive it much takes so much
discipline for you to do that and you're
like yeah totally you caught yourself
ton of slack you start thinking about
you're like I don't know if that's true
I think it used to take discipline but
I've been doing it for so long like when
I wake up I go to the gym it's just
automatic like it doesn't you know you
never look at someone who ties their
shoes and go man that takes a lot of
discipline like you know when you were
four years old it took discipline you've
been doing it so long it it just comes
naturally to you and it's just something
you do because it's habit so habit can
reduce how much discipline you need
right it reduces the difference between
your intention and the low bounds of
your motivation to where it used to be
here we had to fill that whole thing up
with a whole lot of willpower now it's
maybe here and it's just a little
willpower every now and again so yeah
some of you folks didn't have a good hit
that has happened you know you might
have days where you look I've kind of
I don't really feel like training or I
don't really feel like eating these
meals but I got to do it but it's after
a while never like a life-and-death
battle anymore
which is awesome because they see
exactly where we want to get people to
that point we want to get people there
how do we help our clients and our
friends get more habitual so they get to
this sort of bright alleyway of habit
that's gonna coast them to their goals
so much easier than gritting in the
darkness with pissing away tons of
willpower well the way you get them
there is you supply them with the
structures that make these things have
bitchu and make them easier right
sustainable meal plans simple meal plans
easy meal plans on the go options teach
people how to do meal prep look when you
want to count your own macros for every
meal by hand look at a ton of nutrition
labels and you're in a different
restaurant throughout the day and
different food and you have to cook your
own food it's unbelievably difficult to
stick to a diet but especially if it's a
rigorous one which requires a high level
of adherence but if you have taught
someone you get an RP template or some
other digital product that RP offers if
you get coaching from someone and they
write you a customized meal plan its
customized to your daily schedule so
it's already pretty easy to adhere to
you don't have to eat during business
meetings you eat after right or you
leave when you get home so on and so
forth and all of a sudden if someone
teaches you meal prep or offers you a
meal prep service right if a meal prep
service you no one will we're familiar
with it RP is trifecta for example and
there's many good other options out
there they actually just send you all
your meals for the week you don't even
have to cook but even if you don't go
that option if you just cook your own
meals you have them in the fridge it's
really easy to stick to a diet
sorry Umbridge here's that here it's
ready take meal out you put in the
microwave wait for two and a half
minutes check your nails
boom meals done you eat it that's it
right as opposed to like running around
a grocery store like a zombie try to
figure out what to eat so if you teach
folks how to meal purpose you give them
logical diet plans if you help them
guide with coaching so on and so forth
we can make a developing habits easy
what do you tell them in the short term
though before they start forming habits
is you've gotta let them know to hang in
there habits take a while that's the
caveat the downside of habits they take
weeks sometimes months to really develop
a lot of experts in the field say that
you know the two to six week mark of a
diet is when habits really start to
accelerate to building so in the you
know cuz the first two weeks it's kind
of like excitement super high
inspiration motivation and then all of a
sudden you gotta really start using your
who help our really be disciplined while
the habits haven't kicked in yet that's
probably where the hardest part of a
diet really is you've got to let know
folks know that you're helping there's
light at the end of the tunnel there's
hope when people ask does it get easier
100% yes it does you just gotta let them
know and be there to support them in
ways that allow meal prep good coaching
good meal plans easy stuff that's
sustainable for their lives and
applicable to make sure that the
structures that support those habits are
there as soon as possible really when in
place to get them to coast up so you
know so the bright habit city in the sky
right
lastly last one for today passion people
say I oh I want my clients to be
passionate about healthy eating is that
possible for everyone no passion comes
in degrees some people can tolerate it
lowest degree of passion just short of
hatred right it's like that that you
know fifty five-year-old dad and those
sitcoms that eats the bran muffins is
he's got to watch his heart he does it
and he goes in on the treadmill and then
like it but he doesn't that's the lowest
level that's just habit right and then
all the way to like I've changed the
entire trajectory of my life so I can
help other people be passionate about
diet because I'm so crazy about
scientific eating like myself and many
other people right
some of you folks listening may be at
that level of just insane passion for
this whole process can everyone get here
no not necessarily but you can get a lot
of the folks that you're working with up
the passion scale by doing a couple of
things first of all make sure food is
fun you know get folks to buy some
cookbooks we have plenty of good ones at
Rp starting to sound like an infomercial
you know there's tons of good ones
everywhere else that show you how to eat
healthy and super well and to support
body cop and performance
and you know it doesn't have to be like
chicken and oatmeal all the time that's
a real good way to burn out of the
process even if you're habitually eating
chicken and oatmeal that's almost more
sad than drought dropping out you know
so if you learn how to make really
delicious meals if you find a community
of people that also love fitness and
food and health and fun you can be with
them and share ideas and it just
elevates passion to a whole new level
and also not always hypo or hyper
calorically dieting look if you try to
diet all of your weight off at once over
the course of two years just strict low
calorie dialing you're almost certainly
going to burn out if you die for a
couple of months at a time and then you
maintain eating more throughout the
process of maintenance as your
metabolism runs back up or your hunger
starts to fall off you recharge your
desire and your passion for hiding so
that never gets depleted to a point
where you quit funds more say here check
out the book chapter chapter 7 on the
right side on that folks will see you
for the next video chapter 8
[Music]