hello everyone and welcome back to
another episode of the ice cream for
Pierre's podcast my name is Jeff Nippert
and joining me this week I have Meno
Hensel mins on the line how are you
doing men oh great you oh I'm good man
so thank you very much for coming on and
sharing all of your your knowledge with
us I've been pretty excited to talk to
you now for a while so in case there's
anyone listening who isn't familiar with
Meno
why don't you you go ahead and just tell
us a little bit about who you are in
your training and academic background
sure yeah
first I'd like to say that I think it's
awesome that you want to talk to me
because mostly when I will will talk
about for training frequency and we'll
go into that but you said that you had
basically watched my videos and said hey
Dad some stuff that I had never heard
before and I'd like to talk to you about
that and I think that's awesome because
you see so many people in the industry
they have their own little biased view
their dogma you know and regardless of
whether it's right or wrong they'll
never change it so yeah I think it's
great as for introducing myself just
give me the I'll give you a quick
rundown basically I started as a
business consultant specialized in
advanced mystical data analysis and I
realized that that was the career path
that was expected of me but it wasn't
really my passion I had always been
passionate about sports and basically
every kind of sport that was available
in my local community and that
translated into starting strength
training I really liked that and I still
stuck with that and at some point I
think the last port I did was volleyball
and the team broke up for some reason
and we were pretty doing pretty intense
strength training for that and I stuck
with that and basically led to my
passion for fitness and strength
training website writing 40 nation and
now I have my own PT course which is
like certification Institute for
personal trainers research team where
we're going to publish a lot of
scientific papers that were published a
few ready
I do online coaching that's basically my
my full-time gig and still write a lot
of articles for both my own website
Beijing bodybuilding.com and various
other websites and that's where I run
now cool great man so where where are
you from like where are you living right
now because are you an Ecuador or yeah
I'm now in Ecuador by the time you post
this I will probably not be in Ecuador
anymore at least not in the same city I
grew up in the Netherlands and studied
in the United Kingdom and International
College in the Netherlands before that
and now I just travel basically because
my my job but I do online coaching
writing papers publishing articles that
kind of stuff I can do all of that
online so what I need is a good internet
connection and you would actually be
surprised how how much of the world that
excludes but all I need is good internet
connection so right now I'm in Ecuador
I've lived in Belize United Kingdom
Spain Mexico obviously the Netherlands
blue I'd been to Argentina recently now
living Ecuador and next up is Brazil wow
that's that's awesome man
and I think your story is really
interesting one when I can relate to
because yeah I had a career change
myself I was on a path to be a dentist
so I was except in the dental school
right out of the gate and decided
similarly to you that I wanted to pursue
what I was really passionate about so my
switch switched gears and I guess we're
doing similar things but my academic
background I think might not be quite as
intricate as yours so you have a
master's is that related to the exercise
science and physiology or is it a
difficult field well at all
basically my bachelor is in social
sciences you could say it's economics
and statistics I went to the
International Honors College of Utrecht
University and that's a liberal arts and
sciences program so you sort of create
your own curriculum
but I focused on economics and
statistics and some behavioral
psychology then I went to the University
of Warwick and United Kingdom and there
I did basically behavioral science
behavioral economics the field is
technically called you can think of that
as a combination between statistics
economics and behavioral psychology as
well and the reason I have the sophistic
SPAC round that I have is that our
teachers were well basically aware of
the fact that people that study general
economics only end up either in academia
or unemployed so my background was
really really science oriented and very
heavy on the statistics and the
scientific methodology and I'm really
really thankful for that because well
now I can actually use it and apply it
to exercise science and nutrition so I'm
not I don't have any regrets at all that
I didn't study nutrition or anything
because most nutrition and exercise
science Institute's you know they
they're not they're just not that good
yeah so you know Harvard doesn't teach
exercise science hmm interesting
fortunately yeah no I think that's great
and I would definitely view you as one
of the statistic wizards within the
within the niche of Anish that we have
here so yeah I'm sure that that's
benefited your career greatly yep so no
let's let's dive right into the training
frequency stuff so we might disagree a
little bit here but hopefully we can
find some common ground so we can have a
good conversation so how often should we
train a given muscle group right the I'd
say that primarily depends on how
advanced you are if you are a beginner
then most research shows that there is
actually no benefit to training a muscle
group more than once a week
provided that training volume across the
week is equated between groups so your
traditional what I call bro split
basically hitting each body part once a
week that works very well for beginners
but as you get more
the the anabolic window basically which
is the period the time course that you
can elevate muscle protein balance
further than if you were sedentary so
your body basically allows higher
ceiling of muscle protein synthesis
which allows you to build new muscle and
that period basically decreases as you
get more advanced and more the closer
you approach your genetic limitations
the more narrow the window of adaptation
becomes so you can get around that a
little bit by increasing volume or
intensity but what you should shows is
that it is very likely to make up fully
for sticking to a training frequency of
once a week and more clouds lifters
right I've actually heard the I mean I
don't know if you're familiar with Ripa
toes work practical programming and
stuff away yet yeah so I feel as though
he says that the strength recovery
adaptation cycle for a beginner would
actually be much shorter so he makes the
exactly the opposite argument that
beginners should you know hit the big
three Monday and again on Wednesday and
again on Friday kind of thing as long as
they can take advantage of that kind of
linear progression what would you have
to say to someone who would say that I'm
not sure I I actually disagree with you
but that would be if I were to play
devil's advocate here yeah that's a
really good question basically while I
greatly admire epitone is work is not a
very science-based guy self-proclaimed
non science-based die so you know
logically it would be plausible what he
says but research in please show that
isn't true so the repeated bout effect
for example in particular is very well
documented and it shows that as you get
more funds you get used to certain
exercises then you recover faster from
them and mostly it's not even that your
rate of recovery is that different but
the damage you do is greatly reduced so
you simply don't inflict the same amount
of muscle damage
as a beginner does with clumsier and
basically is still very good at damaging
his own body or her own body very
significantly yes you get more advanced
you go very resistant to muscle damage
the body also regulates its own fatigue
what people call central fatigue which
is it exists but it's kind of a it's
often taken out of context and your
water regulates that quite well what you
see in research tools that's that for
example think it's Norwegian fisheries
Norwegian researcher is probably the
world's most renowned expert on the
recovery process after strength training
and he has done a ton of research on it
which shows that the more advanced you
get given the same kind of training the
quicker you recover from it yeah indeed
so how about we assume that most people
are listening are probably at least
intermediate or advanced for the rest of
the course of the discussion so for an
advanced level lifter about how many
times are you looking at hitting a given
muscle group per week I think the
consensus in evidence based fitness is
about twice a week I would say that well
intermediate is abroad well but I would
earn more towards free or even more
frequent sessions than that for most
intermediate lifters because we have
quite a lot of study I think we have
three good studies that show the
superiority of free sessions for a body
part versus one so it's the same total
training frequency same total training
volume but the frequency per muscle
group is free versus one I think we have
three Studies on that and when you go up
to higher ranges then the literature
becomes more scarce but we have a few
really cool ones I think there was a
military study or a study in on military
personnel think Hecker is the main offer
and he compared to three versus nine
sessions and the nine session group we
didn't we suggest achill significance
but they had a lot of they basically on
every measure was a combined training
program aerobic and anaerobic I think
they had the difference was that
9 session group lost fat and actually
gain some muscle mass and the reverse
was basically true for the free session
group more relevantly is the review
frequency project which is one of the
most also studies out there it basically
took at the region national powerlifting
team which is a really really strong for
us and the powerlifting world and they
put them on the exact same program the
only difference was that the high
frequency group did six sessions rich
body part and the low frequency group
did free session so it's free four to
six which is really on the higher end of
what most people would already recommend
and there were pretty clear benefits for
the Six Day group basically you saw that
the free day group make the progress
that you'd expect from elite level power
lifters which is very little and the Six
Day group mate made really good progress
may lifter select twenty percent
increases in strength over the course of
that study which was eight or twelve
weeks I think and they originally didn't
want to publish that because they wanted
to keep it a secret because it's at set
and especially at the time it was quite
revolutionary but it it sort of went
viral and now they're now I know that
they are trying to get it published yes
or it's actually already on the review
based on the last thing I heard because
most people already ordered it right um
see that that's one that I that I
haven't read but I'd be curious to hear
more about so have you do you have
access to the paper personally or has it
been kind of through the grapevine that
you've heard about it ah I've pretty
good contacts in Norway okay yeah I've
seen the contacted you yeah I've seen
the actual programs and Norwegians use
percentage system so they actually
specify with very elaborate
periodization models you are going to do
you know box squats at 70 percent of
your max first set you're going to do
five reps second set you're going to do
eight reps that you're going to do three
reps at 80 percent for example they
specified all of that exactly so
training volume was exactly the same
between groups
only difference was that the frequency
per body but was free versus six
sessions yeah I don't know if you would
have access to this information but how
important what the role of drugs be in
in this so if they're if they're using
you know performance-enhancing drugs and
it might seem more plausible that the
six times per week group would have
superior results yeah that's a good
really good question I think there is no
literature on the effect of and Regina
androgenic anabolic steroids on the
optimal training frequency you could
actually argue it's either way on the
one hand drugs increase your work
capacity making you capable of
tolerating a higher frequency which
might then be able to elicit further
gains on the other hand they basically
increase the distance from your genetic
intention so an advanced individual that
starts taking drugs is now really no
longer an advanced individual because
relative to that versus genetic
limitations DCF now shifted so that
person is not actually an intermediate
which would argue the opposite Church
optimal training frequency needs to
decrease and that's also what you
actually see as a trend in professional
bodybuilders in Arnolds era and
especially before that really before the
steroid era almost all the top
bodybuilders did full body programs with
quite high frequencies like free
training each body part three times a
week was very common up until about
Arnold and it was but Arnold's period
that this shifted and drug use became a
lot more prevalent and now once training
each body part once a week is more
coming at you have guys like big Rainey
that say that they don't need to they
don't train certain body parts more than
once every two weeks otherwise they get
too big that's soon what we call a
luxury problem but more relevantly here
about the frequency project is that if
there is one powerlifting team in the
world where I believe that the natural
powerlifting team is really natural its
Norway these guys are
really really anti-drug and they made a
huge shift
I think much until five maybe ten years
ago performance-enhancing drugs are
actually legal in Norway that changed
and there were a lot of lawsuits and the
government began a really radical policy
and propaganda against drugs and I can
see the effects both in Norway and in my
clients I actually have a question in my
intake form for every client where I ask
are you going to use any drugs because I
take but I take on clients that use
drugs I think that's a decision that
every person should be able to make for
him or herself that's not up to me as a
coach I'm just going to ask them if they
are going to use it and then I will take
this into account but in Norway most
people just say no a lot of people say
what are our pets because I just I just
say Bad's I don't want to attract too
much attention to it for people that
don't know you know so all the people
say you know what our pets the
Norwegians
pretty much without exception they say
something like never have never will
so nobody just says no they're really
finally against drug use a lot of
lawsuits they test people in the middle
of the night like they'd actually be
knock on your door in the middle of the
night like urine test now or you're
disqualified they're really really
strict on it so I really think that
these guys are actually natural right
well that's good to hear I mean yeah I
think that that increases the weight I
guess I would put in that that study no
I think when the full text is published
they will probably say what kind of
testing dated right yeah interesting the
next comment I would have on that would
be how well do you think the measures or
the outcomes in terms of strength would
correlate with hypertrophy outcomes or
did they measure hypertrophy outcomes
yeah they also measured hypertrophy
I think they measured the FASTA
slaughter oliso the quartz basically I
think it didn't reach this to go
significance but the p-value was point
zero six
think which is 1% away from significance
and almost everyone yeah but almost
every moment to call it like a strong
trend yeah okay and you see in the data
I think very fog early Norwegian
strength coach a really great guy to
follow he wrote an article I think
reignite your sight reignite your
progress with new science or something
on a lead FTS and there he shows the
actual data plots from the norwegian
frequency project if they're still there
because i know some sites published it
and they had to take their data taken
away I see okay but I think it's still
early maybe maybe I'll get you to send
that one to me after and I can link it
in the description or in the show notes
or whatever for people to go and read so
let's talk about the effect of volume on
frequency because one of the arguments
that I typically hear for increasing
frequency is that it allows for you to
squeeze in a greater amount of volume
throughout the training week yep so I
mean that's that's kind of
straightforward I think everyone would
probably agree that if you can increase
the weekly volume and that's going to
have positive effects on hypertrophy
right yeah up to a point personally yeah
so let's just say then we equate the
weekly training volume are you still
convinced that there's some volume
independent effect of increasing
frequency on hypertrophy especially in
sailors let's just assume it's just
advanced trainees yeah definitely
because I think literally I'm pretty
sure every study that's been done on
training frequency and fast lifters
equate its training volume between
groups and as you say in practice that
is never the case because if you
normally do incline bench press decline
bench press double bench press and flies
on the same day and in a higher
frequency setup you spit all that out
over the group or over the week then
you'll find that on every exercise other
than the first basically you'll be
stronger if you do a higher training
frequency so even given the same number
of sets given the same exercises your
total volume will be higher because you
are less fatigued every time you are
doing your chest exercises right
okay so I think that's actually that's
why the literature understates the
benefits of fire training frequencies
hmm
but it is true that a lot of people when
they hear for example that some of my
advanced clients they train each party
about once a day even so it's daily at
each party part every day and then what
they do is first of all they are not
advanced and second of all they
basically take their program and just
increase the number of training days
with the same volume and then they get
injured or they just severely overdo it
on training volume and then they're like
you know this is not all the answers in
human you want so it's it's quite
important to still take weekly training
volume into account you don't want to
increase the frequency and the volume in
the same proportion because then you'll
greatly overdo it on the volume right
right um I guess to that point I would I
would have to say like I've seen it in
myself and in some other people that it
kind of takes a while to get going so
just running with your example say you
did flat bench press for three or four
sets incline dumbbell press or whatever
it was for three four sets and then
flies for three or four sets if I were
to just come in and just do flies like I
would just almost feel like in that
specific session I wouldn't be I
wouldn't be warmed up enough or I
wouldn't feel enough stimulation to feel
as though I had you know sufficiently
stimulated the muscle so I would have to
bring up where is that balance between
per volume or per session training
volume and then total weekly training
volume because like if you just imagine
say doing a straight five by five on
squats splitting that up into five
separate days where you just do one set
of five is going to generate a different
amount of fatigue and sort of type of
stimulation and doing all five in one
day it's like there has to be some some
balance between that right yeah that's
um that's funny because a few years ago
basically Berger finally the guy to just
talk to you about he basically convinced
of the benefits of higher training
frequencies based on what you saw as
clients and then I started doing this
before that I actually had the exact
same position as you have that you know
there needs to be some kind of minimal
training stimulus per session but that
that minimal volume seems to be quite
low it's probably if you look at the
research you can actually even in
training lifters with just thirty
percent of your max you can already very
significantly increase muscle protein
synthesis rates so you can basically
open that anabolic window
the adaptation progress you can start it
with just one part set at thirty percent
so it appears that the body is actually
quite sensitive to the stress of
resistance training and it doesn't have
this is threshold that you may expect
that becomes very resistant to you know
building more muscle mass it's actually
it's quite adaptive muscle tissue is as
we just call it it's very plastic
compared to say bone which can adapt
actually but not nearly as much as
muscle tissue and as for the warming up
I think that's mainly something you you
just have to get used to if you do
multiple exercises for the same body
part and you indeed you get by the
tendency to use the exercises especially
if you use something like a pyramiding
scheme the exercises themselves are your
warm-up but you'll need to do more
actual warming up if you do something
like full-body training so but you will
notice that after something like
Romanian deadlifts few sets you will be
warmed up so your chest may not be super
one but you do one set at seventy
percent or something then you're
probably already with each max
performance levels I think there was
actually a Brazilian study not too long
ago that showed that for the benchpress
at 70% an all-out set there was actually
no effect of warming up so it made you
know it may decrease your risk of injury
or something like that
but performance was actually the same so
suggesting that it's warming up is
mostly just the feeling the major caveat
I would add is that that research was
done in Brazil and I have lived in
Mexico and beliefs and by the time I
arrived in the gym there I am already
soaking wet yeah so you know that's
quite a difference for when I'm training
in Norway and I need to wear a sweater
to gym and I need to book keep my
sweater on the first 20 minutes before I
actually start sweating so that's very
important to take into account there
yeah so to that point which I of course
think is a good one
and I'd be curious to hear your thoughts
on say preferentially placing the
majority or the bulk of the training
volume save your chest and delt training
volume on one day where you go in and
you get to get take advantage of those
you know we'll call them like warm-up
sets or exercises or whatever and then
take advantage of the increased per
session volume and then on the other day
say a back day or a leg day or whatever
you throw in this 30% minimal threshold
that you talked about so that you can
take advantage of some increased
frequency while still getting you know a
pretty good hit of per session volume in
earlier in the week so that's actually
the way I've structured my current
training program so I'll have one day
where I do chest and shoulders and then
another day where I do arms but on top
of the arm work I also throw in close
grip bench press and people who have
kind of said well close grip bench press
like that that's not really gonna be
enough chest and delt work to really you
know stimulate much of anything and it
sounds like it based on what you just
said it that might actually be
sufficient but then I get then again I
guess you would probably say rather than
chunk it all on one day you should space
that out across for three or four or
five sessions instead I think that that
setup could work very well and I always
with frequency and volume you are
looking at a range usually so for
training frequency like in the untrained
individuals
in their stall there doesn't at least
seem to be any downside although I
wouldn't recommend it to training each
body part every day as a beginner even
these non-research as I say I wouldn't
recommend it but I think that if you
have a setup like what you said which is
more of one big bolus volume followed by
multiple pulses of lower volume compared
to equating that volume over more easily
distributed pulses over the week you
could definitely get the same kind of
effects and I think that the research I
mentioned twelve studs and a few others
that a lot of research on buffer
restriction training they use a similar
kind of approach basically they use the
blood flow restriction training which
does a very little muscle damage and
causes relatively little fatigue
compared to high intensity strength
training they use that kind of training
over other sessions to basically
supplement a more traditional type
program resulting in still very high
training frequency that sounds like
basically what you're saying and their
results with that I think you get you
could get the same kind of results as
distributing it more equally cool I'm
super curious and you don't have to go
into the details here if you don't want
to if you're like the the Norwegians and
you don't want to share your secrets but
how would you structure so you mentioned
a five day a week training or maybe
seven day a week I don't know a training
program where you're you have your
advanced athletes hitting a given muscle
group every single day how would that
work like would you start with say
squats or a leg movement on one day and
then the next day you would start with a
back and then the next day you would
start with a chest or something like
that or would it just be the same the
same exact routine every day or would it
just be one exercise per body part just
maybe give us a little bit of detail as
to how you would organize that because I
would imagine some of our listeners
might want to try that out
sure yeah I'll take this back to the
intermediate lifter because as you said
most of the audience probably falls into
that category set up I really like their
is having which is actually kind of
similar to what you just described
having one cut really heavier day which
or at least a lot more fatiguing day
followed by a lighter kind of day
followed by an off day which would mean
that the frequency is two out of three
days for each body part and how that
looks
what for it depends on the type of setup
you're doing but dude for example have
heavy bench presses kind of strength
oriented lower reps on day a and on day
B you have for example something like
more i rep petition flies and they cease
rest day for checks click on they see
you are working am straying sand back
for example to Romanian deadlifts heavy
which end old ad you would have for
example leg curls higher folio etc etc
so that for each muscle group it shifts
over to all week in that two out of
three day setup so that's that's example
how about that good look right and then
in more highly advanced guys I think you
said you might bump it up even more or
is that as high as you tend to go no it
definitely then I think there's one
study on female athletes like highly
advanced lifters showing benefits or
even twice a day training compared to
once a day and I think there's one more
study showing some benefits of twice a
day training wear to one session a day
what's your this is like yeah on my
girlfriend what was I saying
training frequency is in the fast
lifters how it would look if someone is
more fast you'd have a setup where
you're basically doing a full body every
day assuming 77 training sessions a week
everybody for once a week that's a setup
that can work well for advanced trainees
what I originally tried doing here is
just increasing the frequency so that
you def for example only in a in a B
session
a typical full foot full body can
set up and you just rotate there really
really fast I found that works great for
people with muscle memory
people on steroids but that is a
surefire way to completely blow out your
recoveries and get injured for many
people so usually what you end up doing
is having a lot more variety for your
thoughts trainings so you'd have three
or four different days is what probably
what I mostly use and each day is a
completely different kind of day and but
they are all technically full-body
sessions so and within those days like
in the example of the intermediate you
might have benchpress and fly rest and
you're fast trainee might have dumbbell
bench press bench press push-ups flies
and you then also alternate rep targets
you might have more exercise variety so
you get a lot more variety for your
class trainee but the frequency per body
part is daily right so you're looking at
about one exercise per body part per day
yeah about one or two is usually as high
as you want to go because well first of
all just session length will be a
constraint yeah and total weekly
training volume will go up really really
fast right and then sets per exercise
you're looking at one two three four
yeah but it varies form it's very
dramatically I'd say because optimal
training volume varies dramatically
females can generally tolerate a much
more also I have training frequency of
an article that probably don't want to
get into too much detail now I think
it's called nine reasons women should
not train like men on my blog but yeah I
think I'd say it varies between all the
way between one and something like eight
sets think um the highest I've gone is
with Nina Ross that got her I have to be
pro card on that program and she did
eight sets per muscle group per day
divided over two sessions so she trained
twice a day with volume of eight sets
per day every day for each muscle group
she is like the perfect profile for that
because she
good genetics she's a woman she has like
a very low stress life she's very chill
out person and you know it's a job to do
this so she can devote overtime to it
she can sleep well every day her
nutrition is dialed in and she has
sponsors that basically make her meals
and that kind of stuff so he's living
the life yeah yeah that's really really
interesting man oh thank you for sharing
that so I'd like to come back around to
the research quickly and have you
comment on what I've been calling the
novelty effect that we see in in
training frequency studies so for anyone
who's not familiar with that essentially
most people just run bro splits or
body-part splits there was a survey done
and I think some ridiculous percentage
of body builders were doing bro splits
it might have actually even been a
hundred percent in the survey so when
you do these studies people are
typically running bro splits at the
beginning of the study then you split
them up into two groups where you have
one group run say an upper lower or what
a full-body or whatever it might be and
then you have the other group continue
running something that they've kind of
already been running or at least
something very similar to it so I think
the case could be made that maybe it's
not the frequency per se that's causing
the the better adaptations in the upper
lower group or the full-body group but
the fact that they're doing something
that's novel something new that they
haven't done before so what would you
have to save it about that I think that
will definitely occur for strength
because basically when you are adapting
to strength training the additional
strength is the sum of morphological
usually just muscle hypertrophy and
neurological adaptations basically your
nervous system learning how to control
your body to perform that given movement
and what you see is that the adaptations
of muscle hypertrophy are somewhat
linear over time over your old training
career and of course diminishing as you
get more advanced but within a certain
program which is like a few weeks they
are roughly linear neural adaptations
are
ever are not linear at all they are very
exponentially diminishing you could
model them with logarithmic kind of
curves so they rise very quickly and
then they quickly diminish yes your
nervous system is even more plastic than
muscle tissue so this is I think also
how many coaches actually fake progress
in their clients they basically just
change everything up like every four
weeks or so and then they are always
making great progress because they are
always a newbie at what they are doing
so it seems as if they are always making
great progress and a lot of trainees
also physically suffer from this they
real value eight their progress in a
year look at the mirror
no take progress photos they see I
haven't really made any progress at all
and you know I've been there years on
end as an intermediate before I figured
out basically how to get to more
advanced level but there are basically
two things in the research and two
phenomena that described the novelty
effect
these are muscle confusion which I
actually call muscle confusion confusion
because the idea is that you should
change things up completely every some
some people even say every session to
prevent the body from adapting but the
whole point of a training session is
that you get the body to adapt
adaptation is the goal because muscle
hypertrophy is the adaptation assuming
your volleyball so that just is just
based on an anonymous interpretation of
the old adaptation process the other
thing which is a lot more scientific is
basically block periodization that you'd
have for example high frequency both
training block followed by a lower
training frequency block however if you
look at the literature block
periodization actually does not have a
great track record at all it's quite
suitable for athletes especially mixed
athletes when you have to combine
strength power endurance and just
overall mass training so when you are
balancing all these different kind of
adaptations then there might be a lot of
merit to block periodization I'm not an
expert
I wouldn't be able to tell you if I
would train an athlete like that because
I don't train makes athletes other than
just get them jacked and after our coach
to the sport specific training yeah but
what most research shows is that blood
pair decision does not fare better than
just a completely continuous program and
a recent study actually showed that
under lighting periodization was
superior to block periodization and for
both strength and muscle hypertrophy I
think so and I also see this in my own
clients like many of my clients that are
with me for months or even two years
it's very rare that someone stays with
me for more than two full years probably
just because of the financial
constraints and I see that progress is
quite linear over time you see that you
know you see the diminishing effect of
what you'd expect an advanced trainee
but I think one of the central tenets of
my current programs is that that's more
of a system that adapts specifically
based on your progress then you know
what then block polarization for example
where you'd have two completely
different kind of every four weeks or at
some other leave your time interval and
I don't see this at all basically any
benefits of changing up a program
because some clients just want it they
say oh I'm really bored with this
program I just need something new
psychologically I like it okay cool and
I don't see better progress there at all
and also don't see it in you know
depending on the type of background
someone asks for example so I got
clients like they come from traditional
boat row bodybuilding backgrounds for
the functional crowd and I have quite a
big audience since I'm speaking at paleo
effects from that kind of crowd like low
carb more functional training in
CrossFit crowd I think the kind of
training that you were doing before is
actually very little impact on what's
optimal what matters is basically
primarily how advanced you are in
relation to your genetic capacity and
that determines the optimal program
parameters like volume frequency
intensity all that stuff
um so yeah I'll touch on a couple things
that you said there
so in terms of block periodization like
this is something that I have read on
quite extensively and have implemented
with some of my athletes and that's
because well I'm a power lifter and a
bodybuilder so I tend to compete in
powerlifting my offseason so I guess you
could call that a mixed athlete of sorts
so I think yeah a little bit right yeah
are you being sarcastic or it is
actually like no no it's um I'd say that
they're not nearly as dissimilar as most
people whatever you believe that the air
is you know strength strength and size
or like these completely different
things that no power lifters are doing
on you guys they're just fat and they're
really strong but they don't have a lot
of muscle mass at all and bodybuilders
very huge inject they're really free all
week actually I think that's that's
complete baloney so up until the steroid
era basically you'd actually saw that
older the bodybuilders for power lifters
and yeah vice versa and also in research
you see like enormously high
correlations actually I have an article
right now paleo FX that just came out
today ethic where I basically make the
claim that indeed power lifters should
train a lot more like bodybuilders and I
think rec knuckles which is was it
really League of a power lifter also
very evidence based guy and this ski
also says that so those are things can
check out a rep oh we're going on
something or we're sorry and I think
that a power lifter in his or her
offseason should should train more like
more like a bodybuilder with more
exercise variation or rep range
variation and so on lower intensities
perhaps but I think that reading into a
competition it's important to acclimate
yourself to heavier loads and so on so I
don't know if strictly speaking it would
qualifies block periodization but I'll
have blocks where I'll focus on peaking
for a specific power lifting event and
then blocks where I'm training more in a
bodybuilding
style with say you know somewhat of a
powerlifting focus at least the big
three are in there at
more higher frequencies and then other
blocks when I'm saying the offseason of
both where I'm just you know doing
something like I would have done for the
last couple of months which was kind of
like a modification on a body part split
or a bro split so in that sense I think
block periodization would be beneficial
for sure but I think that for maybe a
perhaps a strict body builder I I
actually wouldn't be surprised at all if
a just straight linear approach didn't
have you know the same or greater
benefit than a block periodized approach
which i think is what you were saying
yeah yes again you know I do the exact
same thing you do is when it comes to
powerlifting also got some powerlifting
clients and what you just described is
basically exactly what I do the more you
the closer you get to your competition
the more specific the train becomes for
the competition yeah yeah um and then uh
I guess I feel as though I put more
weight on the psychological effects than
maybe you do I kind of take my course
word at face value and they say they're
bored of the program and I send them a
new one rather than keep them on on the
same same split and I find the same
thing for myself you know like I've been
training for ten years and I'll still if
I if I stay with the exact same routine
for longer than I don't know three or
four months and I'm ready to switch
something up and I and I do think that
this is you know supported by by the
research on periodization I'm not sure
there was a there was a video that Gregg
knuckles you just mentioned him he put
out of there around the same time that I
put out my video he's sort of defending
bro splits or whatever and yet he ran
for reference to paper there by a guy
named John Kiley and it kind of it's
just a review of all of the papers that
we have on on periodization and he sort
of notes that one of the common themes
amongst those studies is that changing
up the training stimulus in some fashion
tends to lead to new or at least
stronger adaptations
so I I mean I think that the case can be
made for having periodic alterations in
the training frequencies I would think
that once a week is like pushing it a
little far like I think we have pretty
conclusive evidence that at least
hitting everything I mean at the worst
hitting everything in the way that I
described earlier where you have say
most of the volume bolus and one workout
and then one more work over say you do
one exercise or something would be the
lowest end of the range but then say you
period eyes in another couple of months
of training where you're doing something
more similar to what you described say
four or five times a week hitting a body
part I just feel as though if not from a
physiological standpoint then at least
from a psychological standpoint that
would be more beneficial than just
continuously running the four to five
times per week training frequency yeah
sure I would know that I'm not saying
you shouldn't change the program at all
you definitely should it should change
systemically as you get more advanced
for example increasing your training
frequency increasing volume and it
should also change based on your
progress I mean if you are at some point
you will get stuck on any kind of
program you do otherwise you know you
everyone could to get Jack just being
consistent it doesn't work like that and
then it needs to change
definitely and when you are doing a
program that isn't working
the program needs to change like period
there's just no logical debate yeah
possible about that yeah so yeah there
should be changes and specifically what
I'm saying with block periodization is
the ID that you know every four weeks
the whole program is completely revamped
yeah so my programs usually it's it's
the little things that I'm changing for
example someone's chest may be
stagnating that I'm not changing what
they're doing for the legs so you might
you might also see that in the same
individual their legs might still be on
a very lower strain frequency but their
chest is already a lot more advanced
they've been training chest and biceps
you know mirror muscles for two years
longer than their legs and then they are
bench press program for example if your
furniture will be a lot different than
what there
for their squad and you'll also see more
variety parent cetera so yeah there
should definitely be changes yeah for
just not just for psychological but also
for physiological reasons yeah yeah
psych psychologists a separate thing and
so on not Ryan says that they are bored
with it then definitely I think you as a
coach you should change things up I am
more conservative though I generally
steer people towards being consistent
and just you know sticking with what
works not trying to change things up
just for the sake of changing things up
really hammer down the value of routine
and consistency making a long-term
progress until they really say I know
I'm really bored with this now and then
change it up or you change up what they
are bored with for example so some
people just don't like a certain
exercise you change it yeah but no
reason to change up all the other stuff
the program I think I can agree with
that for sure so yeah like you mentioned
stalls there
so when progress does stall you say you
have to change something up so let's say
you're already training everything five
times a week at that point what what do
you change up the exercises do you
increase the per session volume or do
you think it would be a good idea to
maybe draw back on the frequency a
little bit for a I don't know cup month
or two and then bump it back up again
I want to change the the frequency
frequency probably stays the same or it
goes up unless something like in their
lifestyle changes for example if they
get a new job which is more stressful
which advanced recovery capacity then
their optimal frequency might go down
but barring something like that
I wouldn't use a decreased frequency as
a means to break the butter like use for
example more training volume more
variety in the exercise selection more
complex periodization model like triple
in relation periodization where to what
they were doing before or just different
exercises altogether if i think that the
program is still solid and just it's
this exercise
specifically that they are just you know
they're basically maxed out on it
sometimes literally if it's the machine
that cannot carry more weight and but
yeah we'll use frequency as a means to
break a hotel okay he's not a reduce
right right so I guess like that that's
probably our fundamental disagreement
here because I think that in my case
that's if that is exactly what I would
do because I think there would come a
point where you just can't increase the
per session training volume anymore and
I mean you can switch up the exercises
too I mean especially the assistance
exercises like I think it's good to have
a core of main movements that you kind
of stick to always for the most part and
then the others you can kind of swap in
and out according to preferences or
timing or whatever but yeah I know that
I think that once you reach a certain
cap of per session training volume where
you can owe longer recovery in a day or
two then I think the best thing to do
would be to reduce the training
frequency and then increase the the per
session training volume yeah but it's
it's probably a nada I don't know it
honest a significant disagreement but
maybe I mean I can understand perhaps
you value the the research or the the
data that we have on frequency maybe a
little more than I do but I think that
you know that we've seen in the
frequency literature that the novelty
factor or when you do increase frequency
that shows a positive effect so it would
make sense if you're already maxed out
it in terms of frequency then it would
make sense to reduce it for a little
while
increase the per session training volume
increase the frequency again keep
getting more gains right I'd say that
when you've really reached that point
which is like years of training yeah you
you're basically maxed out on frequency
and training volume as and at that point
hopefully a very elite level trainee
then I'd say realistically and I think
I'm there - realistically where you're
at is just your genetic demand say
and then nothing you do is actually
going to get you a lot more jacked
so except the click gear yeah so exactly
so I think then then you are just all
the changes you make at that point are
fine-tuning the nervous system and I'm
actually not entirely convinced that
there is such a thing as batting max
because we don't know if if it's like a
hard limit or if gains just slowed down
very very very significantly because I
think it was yeah last year I documented
my progress in the most meticulous
manner I've ever done with weights and
everything and it was really sure to
have like the exact same life
circumstances for two weeks exact same
diet everything and I concluded that
that year I gained one pound of muscle
and I was like that's I was actually
quite glad with that because you know I
was still making progress based on the
absolute best most meticulous
measurement I could make I may progress
that year and for me now any progress
really is yeah I'm happy with that
well I think since 2012 I competed in
the Canadian Nationals drug test at
Nationals and since then every year have
been exactly the same stage weed which
is a little bit depressing I do think my
look has gotten a little bit better like
it looks a little bit harder more mature
but in terms of actual muscularity it's
just been diminishing diminishing
diminishing returns yeah but that's
that's the reality as a natural
bodybuilder I don't think that that's
any reason to be fatalistic about your
programming or training though like I'm
here I might as well just not even do
anything like I might as well just you
know maintain at this point I mean I
think that results can be made like you
said I mean even one pound in a year
sounds like not much but one pound of
muscle on stage is you know it's a good
chunk of meat to like it could it could
make a difference in your physique so
yeah I'm for you if I'm 5 pounds heavier
in 5 years I'll be ecstatic
yeah for sure I'm curious man oh how
long have you been training about
for 14 years yeah so I you know a little
longer than myself so yeah that sounds
about right and then the other question
I would have is throughout the course of
that year were you eating in a very
small surplus or how did your diet look
through it that year yep that year
basically did like one really long build
period followed by one really long
period kind of traditional bodybuilding
type programming do you say a long bulk
followed by a short cut where the cut
was shorter than the above what it was
still I think it was something like
eight months bulk four months cuts off
like that okay all right cool okay and
then reduction at the end of the four
month cut or whatever it was you
measured your muscle mass and it was one
pound more than at the beginning and was
there any difference in in fat mass or
like crazy yeah basically I used I used
the tape caliper measurements scale
basically two weeks at my absolute best
estimate of maintenance calories
calculated the two-week average even
measured all my gym clothing in weight
use the gym weight and morning class the
weight and every check every everything
out and then it was one pound difference
at the exact same caliper measurements
across like seven sites oh wow cool
that's that's really interesting I
should run an experiment like that on
myself so so yeah
so I I don't know we can blast through
this really quickly and then we can
touch on the whole nutrient timing thing
which I know is another thing that
you're you're pretty big on see I did
this video where I kind of defended this
stuff I've sort of been talking about
here but I think that you know body
parts plus can have their place
especially if you structure them in the
way I've been describing and the first
reason I think that it's a good idea is
that people tend to enjoy them more at
least in my experience and conversations
with my athletes my friends and just
other bodybuilders even at the very
elite level they just tend to find it
more fun when you can go in and get a
pump and just blast any body part rather
than you know do one exercise per body
part
do you think that's a significant enough
factor to I think I think that's really
high subjective really comes out to what
kind of people you ask because my kind
of programming is is really different I
realized that so a lot of people also
love my clients they come in and they're
skeptical when I first give them a
program and it takes a while to get used
to that kind of programming and then
they also like it yeah I don't think we
have any literature on enjoyability
in strength athletes of different
training frequencies but I would say
that if you just look at the factors
that govern motivation there might
actually be benefits to our training
frequencies as well because you get more
variety
every session and you're stronger in all
the lifts you're doing if you're doing a
fly on a separate day you lift more
weights then all the different day I
think most people joy that also assuming
you do indeed make more progress I think
progress in itself is the most
motivating thing that someone can have
in the program so that would also be
good but yeah I mean psychologically I
forget just difference and it can very
well be a reason for someone to do a
body parts fit simply because they enjoy
that a lot more than full body training
yeah so let's just take let's just take
that as an example so you have someone
who says I really like body parts splits
and I find hitting every muscle just
doing one exercise five times a week I
just find that kind of boring what do
you do for that person
first thing is I never take what my
clients say at face value please might
suck a few considering becoming a client
but it's actually crucial to my methods
I first need to make sure that that
person has actually tried both given
both very honest try yeah and also you
know in doing the right kind of
programming setup because for example
keto diets which really notorious is
this require I cannot recall how many
people have told me you know I wouldn't
I can never do keto diets keto guys
really suck
and I'm like have you tried it and
either they they just fly
haven't or they say yeah I tried it and
I felt horrible for two days and then I
quit and you know if you haven't gone
through that that adaptation period
which were for a ketogenic diet is
really significant but you can make the
argument that for every any type of
program you know any lifestyle change
you need to give it like one or two
weeks before you go call it like Samba
on us try so that's like that's like the
first thing but assuming they have tried
both I will probably try to find a
middle ground if they say they want to
blast a body part like that what you
talked about if they want one day where
they really blast the hell out of that
body part and then supplement it with
for example buffer restriction
throughout the rest of the week so that
you sneekly still get in a higher
training frequency but they still get
these benefits of really annihilating
one body part on lag days for sample
right right yeah no okay I think that
that sounds reasonable
one of the criticisms I've heard of this
is that well if you're dealing with
elite level athletes and enjoyment
shouldn't be really on the table anymore
you should just do what is going to be
best for your results and elite athletes
don't really worry about fun factor
anyway I think that's bunk yeah I do too
okay so all right we agree on that
because even if you're an ally I mean
you've been trained for 14 years I mean
you still you still want to enjoy your
training and I think you're still gonna
you're still gonna tend to push yourself
a little bit harder if you're looking
forward to it if you're like oh [ __ ] I
got to go to the gym now like this and
I've been there I've done training
programs that I've absolutely hated just
because you know they were probably what
was best for me at the time but in
retrospect I think I always push myself
a little bit more on something that I
can look forward to doing yeah yeah for
sure and that varies substantially I all
of my clients are perfectly happy you
know to spend six months on least a
similar setup you know small things
change and at the end of the six months
actually the program has changed quite
considerably yeah but you know very
roughly only like little things have
changed over six months and other
clients just say you know four weeks
that's just absolutely the maximum I can
give and a great example from that is
SiC for golfers a client of mine that
became national powerlifting champion in
Norway and he has really an
all-or-nothing kind of mindset when it
comes he's like extremely dedicated he
did when he became national powerlifting
champion he he had a column clean saying
to make weight you know that that's how
dedicated he is so and that's actually
not that's actually one of my secrets to
make policies and stuff make weight it's
it's serious if you think about it there
is actually no performance detriment you
can lose 4 pounds or something quite
easily but ok he's super dedicated but
he just needs the variety and the
program changes so you know he can
achieve greatness when you allow him to
do the stuff that he is motivated for
right but if I would just force him to
you know this is optimal you got to do
this then I am absolutely confident he
with not of the national virus a
champion right right yeah just you just
cannot ignore psychology yeah ok so that
the other point that I made was that the
body parts flit tends to lead to better
pumps yeah it's not it's not the
strongest case that I've ever made but I
had appreciative maybe comment on that
sure yeah yeah it's a given that if you
do more training session more column
within a given training session for any
body parts you'll get a better form for
sure yeah but the question is of course
other than the fact that you enjoy a
pump and the question is if you enjoy
that pump more than 7 smaller bumps for
example go for because I get like
especially when I'm lean I need to do I
just need to pick up a tumble to get a
sick bump basically in my arms okay so I
kinda usually vascular at low body for
percentages especially in my arms so I
don't need to do a lot of volume to get
a great bomb but other than that the
question is of course if other than
psychological factors that's actually
any physiological benefit to having a
pump
it's kind of interesting because it used
to be it's basically bodybuilders
started about the pump as you know are
washed anglers like it's better than
calming and purely based on feeling you
know you feel that the muscle is growing
that's what it feels like right there
you can see it so that's that's
basically all the rationale that
bodybuilders used to have and then
basically came to science and nature
like you know these things are unrelated
you know it's just build up with
metabolic stress and you know lactate
accumulation blood flow all that stuff
and it's not really relevant to directly
relevant at least to the muscle
hypertrophy process then this basically
caused another shift in the
evidence-based industry where Bradshaw
felt came in and he published his work
on metabolic stress and then all the
pros were like you know see I told you
so that's you know this science we've
been waiting for and we have intuitively
known for all these decades showing that
you need that pump to get great gains
however if you actually look at all the
claims for metabolic stress then I'd say
that that is really there is almost no
relation because if you look at the pump
hypothesis basically that's public
stress what it predicted optimal time
and attention because there is you know
like an optimal time in addition to get
you the best box doesn't exist base the
most research rest inter falls sure the
rest you get bigger bomb higher
metabolic stress not true I wrote a
review paper all that also with Brad
Schoenfeld and a new study actually
showing that if anything there are
significant benefits for most laboratory
to resting longer between your sets
simply because you can do more work so
it's it's definitely not the case that
shoulder rests means higher power means
more growth if you look at reps per set
usually say you know buddy Bob said
eight to twelve reps per set
that's like the range where you get
great bumps actually you could probably
go higher I think most bodybuilders
actually use more like sets of fifteen
or something if you look at programs on
simply show
for example almost everyone the sets of
15 but also research shows not true you
can with heavy weights provided that
volume is equated you can get just this
must-have her trophy or even more so
again no need for metabolic stress you
get water flow restriction training
there definitely the case when you
basically when the intensity is just not
high enough for traditional kind of
training to maximize your per trophy
then the additional metabolic stress can
certainly basically compensate for the
lack of mechanical tension to maximize
upper to three and most research shows
that you can still at least come close
to maximizing opportunity however not a
single study to my knowledge is actually
found that you're given similar program
any program with both restriction
results in greater gains then simple
traditional high intensity training
which means that you know that
mechanical tension is most likely more
important than metabolic stress and
metabolic stress has a potentially
redundant at all role see what else
oh yes raised motion you get the sickest
bumps if you use partial range of motion
training and keep the tension on the
muscle basically a most striking example
this most research shows I think most
people know that for ways of ocean
training it actually is actually
superior in most cases to using partials
but if you look at the most striking
research here which is I think the bench
press we're at the top of the bench
press there's very little resistance
where there is a big gap between
strength resistance caress so you can
produce a lot of force but a lot more
that you can mention the bottom position
which means that the weight feels
whether if you lied at the top however
two studies have been done on this
showing consistently de think they both
measured strength not sure one of them
also measured up vertically but they
show that strength gains at least are
about sixteen seventy percent greater
consistently when you are performing a
last bit of range motion as well even
when you compare a full range of motion
train
to another group that does two sets for
every one set of Florence motion trading
one set with the bottom lines of motion
and one set with the top range of motion
and the most striking thing there is
that if you separate these parts of the
range of motion in the top you can
actually move a lot more weight so the
total training loads and the partial
training group is actually a lot higher
because yeah you can use a lot more
weight because the top is easier so even
in that scenario it seems that for is
function training which does not give
nearly as much bump is superior so
basically for metabolic stress I'd say
that it was a great idea didn't live up
to
Yemen's right right um yeah so I mean
like sure I of course willing to grant
that mechanical tension is a more
significant factor than metabolic stress
but I don't think that implies that
metabolic stress has no impact
whatsoever like I I think it I think
it's worth considering as a small as a
small factor I don't think it would
Trump mechanical tension and then your
other example I don't think it would
Trump range of motion but I don't think
that means we should throw it off the
table all together so in my case I think
that you know as a another reason why
bro splits might be effective for some
people I think the you know it's it's
worth considering and sure even even if
we just you know ignore the
physiological benefits which are
admittedly small then like you said the
psychological impact I mean you Arnold
even even set himself right so yeah I
mean I don't take sure too seriously but
I definitely yeah that was interesting
about the range of motion especially
when you consider you know doubling the
number of sets for the for the top-end
range of motion and then that still
being inferior so full range of motion
is clearly a very important factor and
you on yes okay well that topic I have I
fully agree with you about psychological
effects aspect there are a few
supplements for example citrulline for
example that I think will increase your
pumps and you have to like these
explodes organizing kind of things that
actually not sure if they increase your
bombs seems to in some individuals but
you know some of my clients just they
just say I want something that increases
my bumps and I say well this is not it's
not going to answer performance is
probably not going to answer gains at
all but it's worth trying if you just
want to get better pumps and they're
like okay cool and they find that they
get better pumps they use a supplement
purely for that reason so yeah yeah and
then the last reason was that it allows
better prioritization of arms so I
believe you've alluded to this before in
in this discussion that when you hit
something fresh at the beginning of a
workout you tend to perform better on
that given movement so you know in
corroboration with this I've found that
you know when I hit say a full body
workout and then I do arms my arms
sessions just suck so what I found in
switching to more of a body part type
split I've been able to prioritize my
arms by giving them their own day so I
can kind of hit my biceps when they're
when they're fresh and then you know the
same thing goes for for the triceps so
what would you have to say about that
I'd say you can still just you know
there's nothing wrong in Arabi we're
starting your workout with Barbra curls
ya know in practice often you end up
with a compound exercise but one of the
most important factors for exercise
order is simply the priority that
something asks if you are also really
lagging then I would definitely see
married to starting your workouts with
like you say closer close grip bench
presses for example or overhead triceps
extensions and what will curls or I like
to use Bayesian curls a lot start your
workout with that that you can
absolutely do that as for dedicated arms
days I think a lot of people are prone
to overtraining
or at least over doing it on their arms
because men at least are just for chest
and arms like the body parts if you look
at their programs and even when they
flat out tell you like now this program
is as equal volume for legs and upper
and you just do the map and you see it's
not nearly optimal and if you look at
most programs with an arm day and go to
simply shredded for example and just
tell you up volume however however you
want to calculate it for different body
parts
I can guarantee you you'll see arms and
chest having a lot more volume than
enterings for example even though
hamstrings are arguably for a
bodybuilder one of the most important
muscles emptying definition and tricks
creation especially is something that
gets you self of points in bodybuilding
contests but so yeah I think aren't they
often result in overdoing and on the
volume for arms and two studies have
actually been done on adding armed
isolation work to compound exercises
both found no significant benefits for
massage / to feet or strength one in
advanced trainees and one in untrained
individuals I would definitely not say
that all you need is compound exercises
and there was trends or greater gains
I'd say in these studies with the arm
training but it does definitely show
that you know the biceps curls and stuff
they are the icing on the cake basically
compared to just getting really strong
and chin-ups and stuff so it's very rare
I have an actual arm day although the
one of the benefits that normally might
actually work is that you actually
increase volume and training frequency
for example you'll see that certain
bodybuilders compared to their legs like
them strings I like I talked about and
they arms they train member for higher
training frequency which might actually
be the reason why they get the
impression it's the arms day and it's
working but really it's just a frequency
and the volume is making their arms
progress better than their hamstrings
yeah so one of the things that I had
considered when I was sort of designing
this for myself was just doing say like
a push-pull legs and then putting the
arm work on the beginning of the pull
day or say the bicep work at the
beginning of the pull day and the tricep
work at the beginning of the push day
just just as an example or we could do
like you said and just you know put it
at the beginning of whatever workout
but then the obvious downside of that
would be that the subsequent back work
might suffer as a result of the biceps
being fatigued which seemed suboptimal
to me
so then that was my rationale for
putting the arm on their arms on its own
day because they are what I believe to
be a glaring weak point in my physique
when I first started training I was
trained for basketball so I did a lot of
lower body work didn't really care about
aesthetics or my arms too much which is
atypical and in the community but I
really didn't train them much and then I
I never really honestly enjoyed training
my arms I just felt it to be like
uncomfortable and then I never saw much
progress but when I do put them on their
own day it's like it solidifies in my
mind okay this really what I got to go
in and do just have to no blast my
biceps for a half an hour or whatever
and that was a way for me to kind of get
that work done without compromising you
know the subsequent work like I said so
that was sort of my rationale for for
doing that that can work perfectly fine
like I said if that's the way for you to
incorporate a sufficient volume and
frequency and motivate you for that
especially if for example you're
comparing program with four days a week
where the arm training is included
versus five days a week where arms get
there all day and I think yeah
definitely the arm day yeah yeah
don't be positive yeah I think it would
be different if you had like you know
Monday chest Tuesday back Wednesday legs
Thursday shoulders Friday and that's
quite a bit different in structure then
yeah you know what we've been talking
about so yeah Sarah can agree there so
yeah so how does training frequency tie
in with the timing of nutrients around
the workout yeah it definitely ties in
strongly with that in the interest of
time I will refer to one of my latest
presentations slash article on my blog
called workout workout nutrition does
matter high frequency ball video high
frequency bodybuilding and more think
it's a title probably still my phone
page on my website page your body when
we're calm but briefly the idea is that
actually
more funds like I was saying then these
anabolic window which is really not
this is anabolic people that's like one
in two hours before and after the
workout and then it closes and then it's
gone
it starts basically as soon as fatigue
accumulates within a muscle and then it
can last very long time in beginners it
can last over 72 hours has been
documented and I think that a really are
training bodybuilder based on frequency
research you would see that this
anabolic window basically last all week
which is why we don't see the benefits
of increasing it's very frequency beyond
one session a week in untrained
individuals so and this is window
basically shortens you become more
resistant to also damage your recovery
as faster or at least you are more
resistant to the same amount of fatigue
and that's why you get the benefits of
our training frequency but you need to
supplement that with workout nutrition
because the anabolic window is the pro
is d time period where a muscle growth
occurs just as SC arth reality check if
you're on false trainee and it's your
second rest day in a grow you are the
rest rest day in a row you are not
gaining muscle mass that day I can
almost guarantee it again the actual for
a special elite level trainee I think
that why we gain so little muscle mass
is because it is really just a few hours
after the workout that you are really
having a state of net positive protein
balance basically that you are actually
accumulating new protein in your muscles
so with the if it fits your macros kind
of crowd where I called Annihilus
bodybuilding proudest certain basically
pull themselves the fairy tale you know
you go into the gym you do having squats
some people even think you do every
squats and your entire body grows fry
rest of the week so and then just look
at the actual rates of muscle growth you
see this individuals and yourself you
know just look at the weight and the
mirror actual rays of possible of your
see is not the case that you are just
growing
non-stop so yeah I'd say that you know
an untrained individual and you are
doing addict raining session then there
is very little actual relevance for
workout nutrition that's also what the
literature shows and untrained
individuals you know providing provided
that you have a realistic setting you
consume enough protein and stuff you
have whole meals at least for your day
then it won't matter when if you are
consuming these workouts you know in the
form of a shape that you slam down the
stews you at the locker room or you go
home and you just have full meal when
you get hungry however I should get more
advanced and especially as you get to
the elite level which is also what a
really nice study from Japan I think
showed that in advanced trainees it does
matter and it becomes really a matter of
hours so I don't think you have to slam
down shake when you're at the locker
room but you do need to stand with your
workouts efficiently with meals and how
much you actually have to sandwich it
depends on if they're mixed meals you
know fiber content fat contact if it's a
way shake for example many people have
just a way shake and then actually
research seems to indicate that there
are significant benefits to having these
protein pulses of way a lot more
frequently and also becomes a lot more
important to actually slam it down like
when you eat locker room in the context
of full meals I don't have many of my
clients actually consume shakes
post-workout actually very few just make
sure that in their lifestyle they
sandwich their workouts efficiently with
the news okay interesting yeah I mean I
am currently of the opinion that it's
not going to hurt to slam a shake
especially if you in your offseason you
have plenty of calories to go around so
yeah I mean I've I've been fairly
familiar with the the research on this
topic and I think that I agree with you
completely on that I mean I think that
especially in advanced and elite level
athletes that window just becomes
smaller and smaller and so it becomes
increasingly important to get some form
of amino acids in within some window and
like you said you know that window is
going to depend on the pre
workout meal and lifestyle factors as
well but I think that you know all else
being equal I think it's like safe to to
just get a shake in after and at least
it allows you to be be consistent with
it so I don't think it's a bad idea I
know you're not a very big protein guy
daily protein guy so maybe you might
exceed your daily intake the case could
probably be made that there's total
daily and that might get too high and it
might be unnecessary yeah in any other
context I think it's a good at least not
a bad idea right if it doesn't hurt then
yeah yeah sure
yeah and it's interesting that it is I
think that's basically what our accounts
conclusion is about the topic I don't
think he's really confess convinced
about research as I am you def ask him I
can't speak to him of course he just
says you know there might well be
benefits so just do it it's not a lot of
effort yeah you know yeah and I've heard
Brad Schoenfeld who I pretty sure
co-authored that paper that caused all
the uprising and ify I am proud like you
said with with Alan Aragon and I might
be forgetting a couple others but and
I've heard him say in an interview that
you know if if you're you know your
everyday gym goer who's just trying to
you know stay healthy stay healthy and
improve their physique or whatever then
it's not going to make much much of a
difference but if you're an elite level
bodybuilder who's trying to get every
last morsel of muscle then yet it is
prudent to get some sort of post-workout
nutrition within a half an hour I think
was the time we reference that's that's
really funny because I said this in in a
previous interview like and I think
especially Alan Aragon Bradshaw felt
have become swords against their will
they are now heralded as the heroes of
if it fits your macros yeah and you know
me when someone says they are consuming
a shake
they're like bro have you read anything
at all by now gone about your felt just
do it you have to read the research but
I don't never gone to my knowledge read
Schoenfeld Eric Elms
well I think these are the guys that are
most were known for disproving myth
debunking that the work of magician if I
think they all still last time we talked
to these they all still consume shakes
post-workout so discrepancy there
between you know questioning things in
the scientific literature and the
practical application that you still the
practical application what you still
actually recommend to people may it's
not always you can question like I said
or what you said you can question the
existence of any benefits of having that
shake but there might be benefits and
it's a low effort decision so you know
cost benefit it's a good decision to
conserve the shape yeah yeah and that's
a big difference between you know purely
scientific but I call nihilism just
always having a standpoint that things
don't matter you until you have at least
free you know when my spiritual studies
showing that this is actually true yeah
and you know just practical logical
reasonable practical device yeah exactly
so on that note I think that's probably
a good place to conclude this podcast
mental so sure thank you so so much for
for coming on the show
I think arm is really going to
appreciate your insights on these topics
and I'm happy to hear that we agree for
the most part on on the big important
stuff yeah that's good picture yeah
especially yeah exactly
all right well hopefully we can
collaborate again sometime in the future
I there's plenty of other stuff that I'd
love to chat with you about but sure
we'll call that a day so thank you very
much mental and thank you guys so much
for listening to another episode of the
ice cream for Pierre's podcast and we
will catch you in the next one