hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is the
five rules of chest training
yes they're rules but they're not hard
rules think of it more as helpful hints
for your chest success and it sort of
Rhymes all right rule number one is in
my opinion nothing beats deep controlled
presses be the incline be the horizontal
be they decline big presses make big
chests
I'm sticking to that flies are cool too
and they're super effective I just want
you to know that you're not going to
cable crossover with pinkies out
yourself towards enormous pecs it's not
one of these things like for biceps or
isolation exercises seem to be the bee's
knees big heavy compound presses are
really in almost certain ticket to a big
chest so don't ever forget that it was
good for Graham Greg great grandfather
it was good for Grandpa dad did it your
little brother's doing it already your
older brother has a kid and he's doing
it already don't fall behind
number two rule
like most muscles seemingly if not all
they get a better growth stimulus if
they're stretched deeply while they are
loaded with a huge amount of resistance
anything between sets of five to sets of
30 repetitions that deep stretch is
critical under load so if you can
generate a deficit
in which you can press quote unquote
below your packs you are going to get a
huge stimulus ease into this don't do a
ton of sets at first because it will
absolutely fuck you up in the best
possible way with the lay down set
muscle soreness and growth of course
what does that mean consider getting a
cambered bar
which has a little doohickey Wiggly
thing in the middle you can press below
your chest deficit push-ups are super
easy for anybody to do put two plates go
between them machines that are well made
and can do a deficit and of course
dumbbell presses of incline and flat can
both be done outside of your body to hit
a deficit
any way to create a deficit is going to
pay off it's a huge addition if you've
never done it prepare to be like holy
fucking shit
what the hell am I doing to my body good
things you are doing to your body
rule number three flat pressing
and incline pressing
flat flies and inclined flies are all
correct answers and I just don't
understand why the internet is full of
people being like you need to do incline
for better chest don't do flat you need
to do flat press syncline presses don't
actually work which I never thought
somebody would say but then Doug
bergnoli says inclines don't actually
train your chest
if I had hair I would be doing this with
it
pretend I have huge horse-like Mane sexy
locks I pretend this daily
it's all right answers folks press press
press away fly away decline flat incline
it's all good don't get caught up in the
weeds just do good pressing and flying
work if it gives your chest a big pump
if it makes your chest sore it's the
right answer
number four this is a big one try to do
what power lifters do now they do it in
order to shorten the range of motion but
they end up getting themselves under the
most hypertrophic muscle growth
promoting range of motion by doing this
they do two things
instead of lying flat backed on whatever
bench they're doing whether it's a
machine press whether it's dumbbell
presses or whether it is a flat press
instead of laying flat they arch their
backs not a ton some of them do just a
little bit arch your back a little think
of it more as sticking your chest up and
then take your shoulder blades and slide
them back and under yourself
now when you press as you press you're
going to lift your chest up to the bar
or to the dumbbells and through the sky
pause and then come back up
slow and controlled big chest all the
way deep keep your shoulder blades back
keep that back arched or in other words
push your chest up don't ever lift your
butt off of the bench that's really bad
can get you hurt but if you Arch and
retract you are putting your chest at a
pre-stretched
Advantage for muscle growth they're
basically in a more hypertrophic
position to begin with which is awesome
a bonus point is that in my view the
probability of shoulder injury is lower
when your scaps are tacked back this way
so you're winning on two grounds
potentially
not mandatory but give it a try some
people who have trouble feeling their
chest mind muscle connection trouble
with pumps and soreness and fatigue they
do the Arsenal retract and they're like
holy shit finally I can feel my pecs
lastly control The Eccentric and pause
your presses especially if you're doing
deficits it keeps you safer and it gives
you more time in that nasty stretch
position so instead of mentioning like
this
come down under control couple seconds
pause these barbell be a dumbbells be
whatever pause for one or two seconds
and then press back up control
stretch pause and go that will keep the
weight on the bar the same reduce the
total number of repetitions because each
rep is harder but increase the quality
and safety of the repetitions beyond
what they normally would have been
you're now doing the same amount of
actual effort but your effort is more
effective and safer I can't think of a
better way to get good training than
have it be more effective and safer if
only more clowns were involved and made
it fun like every time you do a bench
rep and lock it out the Clown's got the
kazoo thing or whatever it's like
that'd be great gyms work on that and
while you work on that like subscribe
swipe up swipe down left right no wrong
answers comment if you want to be in our
members Community for more nerdy videos
with real technical Sport Science come
join us it's only five bucks a month and
for like 30 bucks a month or something
you can join the team Forum Forum which
means you get tons of included
programming uh you know every 12 weeks
we have two programs come out and each
time two programs come out it's really
five programs because it's to whatever
day you want we have like a four day a
week five day a week specialty programs
all the stuff come on in we'll analyze
your videos we'll do video review for
all of your lists we'll tell you how to
improve your Technique we can do
physique reviews and we can even try to
guesstimate your body fat which I'm no
good at to be honest I just type in 50
no matter what you put anyway see you
guys next time