[Music]
hey guys dr. Mike intertel here for
Renaissance plus today's topic is
unhealthy body fat levels more
particularly there's a lot of talk I'm
sure you've read some articles online
seen some videos or people talk at the
gym Bob what are unhealthy body fat
levels and you kind of get the
impression that there's definitely such
a thing as too high quite sure the
numbers people who push a lot of numbers
around and there are also impressions if
there's such a thing as too low so we're
gonna go in a little bit deeper an
examination today to figure out if there
is a too high if there is a too low
what those numbers are for both males
and females because they are different
and see kind of why the reasons are for
what they are and what to do about it
particularly so they're different for
females these numbers right different
for females different for males because
fundamentally females carry extra body
fat for the support of their secondary
and primary reproductive organs and
reproductive capacities females have a
reproductive fat around their gynoid
region the hip region they have breasts
that are made primarily of fat and those
structures are designed to have body fat
in them so the body fat that is there is
not health impairing whatsoever it is as
a matter of fact health imparting so
we're gonna learn a little bit that
females carry bit higher body fat
percentage than men and there's nothing
absolutely wrong with that so the first
thing I have to say is kind of a prequel
to this a big public service
announcement if you happen to be female
and you're watching this or if you're
male you coach other females you're
friends with them etc remember that when
male say hey I got my body fat done and
it was this and people at the gym go oh
that's really cool
what's your Cindy or what's yours Laura
and Cindy and Laura look at each other
and they go holy crap and they know
they're number than anything
done last week they got a DEXA scan or
skinfold or something like that and they
know what's really higher and they start
to compare themselves with the males
because a lot of the females that come
to seek our support and our guidance at
Renaissance they'll say well I want to
be this body fat when we go all the
craft that's really low you know where
did you get this number and they're like
well that's what the major members talk
about is being good was being lean as
being healthy and all of a sudden roll
em you know these males or females like
well they're males but if there are no
but it's a completely different issue
right as a female you don't seek to be
you know 230 pounds with abs because
mostly that's out of the reach for
females given their hormones and
genetics and and other factors but for
some reason females seem to think that
all while I'm just gonna get just as
lean as males in the short term that's
actually possible we'll talk about that
later but in a long term especially for
healthy sustainable levels those are
different values so let's just get to
the valleys real quick first what is too
high too high means that your chances of
experiencing long-term health
degradation start to go up to unfriendly
numbers two numbers that to a medical
professional would not be favorable to a
long life full of fundamentally good
health now of course we're going to give
you exact values but it's a spectrum
range and we'll talk about what that
means in a bit so this isn't like if
you're 1% below this number you're
golden if you're 1% above imminent death
it's just a very general number to keep
in mind that if you stay on the south
side of this number on the low end
you're probably in the clear and
fundamentally can focus on a lot of
other things about your health versus
your body fat if you're significantly
especially significantly above these
values were about to give significantly
means your 5% or more above them then
it's probably a good idea to take a look
at your body composition your level of
body fat and work on that as a primary
secondary or tertiary goal before you
move on to other goals it's one of those
situations when a patient presents to a
medical professional or a client to a
trainer or something of that nature our
client to an RP coach and they say I
want to be healthy if you look at body
fat and it's within on
underneath that healthy range we say
okay well let's take a look at your
activity levels let's take a look at the
kind of training you're doing let's like
take a look at the quality of your diet
she's getting all of your nutrients etc
etc we're not gonna worry about your
body fat much that's not the biggest
route to health he doesn't pay huge
dividends when it's already low but were
already in the lower range but if it's
in the higher range especially we into
the higher range it gives us the best
bang for the buck in terms of health to
start focusing on that first I'll put it
another analogy if you have a car and
you want to make it go faster we can say
that body fat is the kind of tires you
have in your car if you have
fundamentally good tires they're not
super slick race tires or super cool
winter tires that don't slip but they're
good tires they're relatively new
they've been traded off front to back
front to back they've been rotated if we
want to make your car faster maybe we
got to work on the engine maybe we got
to work on the electronics maybe got to
work on the aerodynamics but the tires
are fundamentally good if they're within
that normal range now if your tire
situation is one in which you're riding
on a spare tire on one side another tire
is completely flat and one tire is on
its way to being flat and one tires over
pumped the tire situation is something
we need to look at first before we give
you a bigger engine to make you go fast
enough just to crash the car because of
tire instability so put another way
we're gonna make sure that if our body
fat is definitely the high end range it
receives priority in an intervention and
trician lee and for training that's
designed to enhance health but if your
body fats within comfortably especially
within the normal range or within the
healthy range it might not be your first
concern it probably shouldn't be for
enhanced health so numbers very general
remember super rough estimates plus or
minus 5% of these for sure for males any
time we see males under most conditions
get above 25% fat fat like I just stated
becomes a pretty big concern fat
reduction becomes a pretty big priority
now does that mean that above 20% and
your
the clear that you won't have any health
benefits being above 20% if you go below
let's say you're 22% are you just golden
and if you go to 16 are you're just not
gonna see any health benefits no of
course not you'll see plenty of health
benefits from 22 to 16 from that kind of
drop but if you're below about 25% as a
male high body fat level isn't probably
the number one thing we're worried about
with you we're not worried at all but
it's probably not the number one thing
that you should be concerned with
altering if you want best health so for
example if we have an individual that
has you know 22% body fat but
accomplishes this for a completely
sedentary lifestyle and in that case you
know we're not we're so worried about
the body fat that's not really the
problem so we might not even address
eating all that much because
fundamentally eating seems to reflect a
decent level of body fat but we might
really try to get that individual to
exert more work effort go and have
better workouts in the gym as that will
forget about effects on body fat even if
that doesn't change we'll have much
better effects so 25% is kind of our
rough estimate there anything much above
25% starting to be a priority for body
fat loss so if you're male and you're a
30% it should definitely be a high
priority in your fitness goals in your
health goals to get that number below
the 25 range if you're way below and
we'll address this in a bit maybe it's
not number one priority for females that
number is actually about 35% so we see a
10% discrepancy across most of these
values for males and females so 35% plus
for females if you're female in your 37
40 % fat yes there are 50 different
goals you can have for your health but a
reduction of body fat you know truly
objective analysis is going to be a
priority if you're in the low 30s maybe
other things list such as physical
activity such as the quality of your
diet so just the amount of muscle mass
you're carrying may actually be more
important for your health and pay bigger
dividends so 35% is that number for
females and again it doesn't mean that
you're completely safe from all harm at
34 and
mean that a 36% disaster is going to be
imminent but it does mean that they give
us these very general values so that you
can have two lines of thinking it's just
a priority structure when you get your
body fat done next time if it's a good
reliable method usually DEXA skin fold
caliper x' sometimes the V a device but
that's usually not that great the bod
pod is a good one where you sit in the
air chamber and it measures your volume
so if you get your body fat and let's
say your mail and you're 19 percent or
you're a female and you're at oh I don't
know
29% fundamentally if your number-one
priority is your health you're plenty
lean to be in very good health if you
come to a medical professional
the first thing he or she is probably
not gonna say is that you need to get
much leaner and lose a whole lot of
weight but if you have the same tests
and you're a male and you say test that
29% your female you tested 39 or 40
percent getting lean should be
considered as a big part of what you can
do to enhance your health
forget about appearance appearance for
sure health definitely now is a concern
so those numbers are good and ones to
keep in mind question why they're so
high body fats are seemingly conducive
to poor health why is that the case well
a couple of reasons
one high levels of body fat produce a
lot of unfortunate bloodwork profiles
that are themselves caused cause and are
correlated with poor health outcomes
serum cholesterol tends to reflect more
bad cholesterol and less good
cholesterol the higher body fat someone
has there's probably cause and effect
there to some extent high body fats
actually cause those levels triglyceride
levels seem to be off in a variety of
other levels of blood work that are not
indicative of good health and when body
fat levels are reduced good health blood
work is much higher in probability just
having extra fat tissue having extra
weight and the fat tissue itself seems
to put an extra stress on organs it
seems to tax the organs all the way into
the bone
because they have to carry the extra
weight around so there is an organ
taxation process with excess body fat it
is higher than with excess muscle mass
so there's that consideration and you
can tell all the stuff starts to sum up
over a long term there are hormonal
effects particularly with effects
sometimes on testosterone estrogen high
fat body fat levels produce tend to
convert more estrogen testosterone than
is optimal and at a high astronomic
environment that actually just rewards
more fat building to some extent that's
a relatively small concern compared to
the effects on insulin particularly with
insulin resistance body fat levels are
so positive of a development of insulin
resistance which is by the way
pre-diabetes or pre type-2 diabetes
which eventually if you get is a real
bad health concern
it is so causative of this that in rats
studies in which they want to induce
pre-diabetic State they actually just
make the rats fatter by any means that
they can so they usually restrict their
physical activity it actually feed them
more fats you would think they'd feed
them more carbohydrate which is a
straight line to diabetes you would
think but they actually oftentimes over
feed them just saturated fats why
because they're cheap and easy to eat
the wrath love them and the rats excess
body fat gain from those excess
saturated fats with a lack of physical
activity ends up causing pre-diabetes
almost every time so with that insulin
resistance factor poor blood work tax on
organs and hormonal effects we're
getting some really nasty and there are
several other effects that I haven't
mentioned that the actual carrying of
excess fat tissue starts to impact body
processes to a negative and that's a
problem so we're gonna have to do
something about now that sounds pretty
scary but there's a real big caveat to
that all of these are long term what we
call summative effects which means that
if you spend one day magical genie comes
down comes down to earth I was gonna say
he comes out of a lamp and he's like you
got three wishes you're like all right
all the money in the world he's like
done like superpowers and work
he's like on it and you're like I want
to be super over fat for one day gasps
to see what it feels like and he's like
well you know you could have just done
that by eating cookies yeah my motto
just make me fat loser all right so now
you're super rich immortal all-powerful
and super fat for a day
how much would being super duper fat for
a day actually affect your health the
answer is almost not at all
it's a tiny effect into one day now if
you were over fat all over those 25 35
percent levels for males and females
respectively for a week how much would
that affect your health well you know a
little bit what about for a month more
what about for a year now we're talking
now that's gonna cause some arguably
irreparable damage to organs into blood
work mediated physiological systems what
about for years what about for decades
that's the American obesity epidemic
that's what's reducing life expectancy
by 10 15 20 years across the nation for
those groups that are affected so if a
body fat test shows that you in fact
have excess body fat and you could
benefit from losing it it's a long term
process so thinking about oh my god I
have to lose all this in three months is
disastrous because rushing into fixing
that big of a problem usually doesn't
work and there are studies to confirm
that 95% of all fat loss diet or fail
and rebound back to their old weight so
the reality matter is because it is a
summative process yes being over fat is
not good for your health
but you're not killing yourself at some
kind of rapid pace to juxtapose this
with other medical problems if you get
diagnosed with malignant cancer god
forbid it's not like okay well you know
well I'll schedule an appointment
oncologist later in the week I'll
probably go when the month clears off
because it's a busy day at work are you
out of your mind you better act now my
days are ticking every day that cancer
is in your body is a day it spreads
demorgan's is a day closer to your
imminent death if you don't do something
about it with advanced chemical
radiological and everything other kind
of treatment and if you hit it fast you
hit it hard there's a good chance now
with many cancers that you're going to
become
lately cancer-free after a couple of
months and you'll be well on your way to
a long and happy life then timing is of
the essence immediate actions of the
essence because cancer kills real quick
especially when it's a malignant stage
but for high body fat levels it's the
kind of situation that in order to fix
the problem it takes time but the
problem itself isn't super dangerous in
any one time
it's a slowly compounding situation
right so if you find yourself it's kind
of like money if you find your budget to
be off and you're in a financially
financial position in which you're
losing some money which we have a lot
saved up you could lose money for years
and years and still have enough to live
on so do you need to go rob the bank or
a get-rich-quick scheme or something
like that no what you need is a good
actionable strategy to increase your
income maybe something like taking a
couple courses of college getting a new
certification upping your level of
commitment to your career looking for a
new job
that kind of stuff takes months it might
take years but once you have done it you
reverse course now you're fixing the
problem in a way that's sustainable in
the long term you get a Realtors license
you start making $200,000 a year your
your money problems are solved kind of
ad infinitum because of the fact that
you took a long time months or whatever
just study up get familiar with the
industry and do what it takes very
similar thing with body fat so please
don't let this video be one of these
things that you watch and go oh my god
oh my god I'm over the body fat limit
let's do Beachbody super extreme
hardcore Z effects 3000 supplement with
three out of testosterone esters to just
wasn't enough I need to fix this right
now you don't need to fix it right now
but what you can do is calmly address
the situation follow a sustainable fat
loss diet with planned breaks every
couple of months to let your body heal
from the metabolic disruption from the
psychological disruption to let the
setpoint reset so you can slowly ratchet
down and eventually within several
months or several years depending on how
much body fat you're carrying you're
below those top-end limits and you're
golden and you can prioritize other
things how do you make that sustainable
stuff well half the services at
Renaissance or design for you just to do
that including a
coaching under templates but nothing we
promise works overnight so if you have
these high body fat levels oh I'm
talking about don't you freaked out
because freaking out just actually just
increases your cortisol it makes you
even fatter so anytime the situation
occurs but you find out that you're
above whatever levels of body fat that
you need then you can rectify it slowly
and surely and don't be alarmed it's not
something that you have to fix now but
you can calmly start to work at it
through normal steps so we definitely
have these high ranges and we're not
gonna say we want to steer clear of them
but if we're on the plus side of those
ranges body fat reduction is probably a
very high priority for health certainly
one of them
now what does that mean so we're gonna
have low values in a second so it's
between these low values and high values
of the best health is found but what
does that look like well if a male gets
leaner than 25% on average he gets
healthier for a while 20% body fat for
males on average all things being equal
is significantly healthier than 25% not
much like it is between 2 30 and 25 but
15 percent body fat is quite a bit
healthier than 20% but nothing to write
home about 10 percent body fat and 15
percent I mean is really small
differences in health and 5 percent fat
and 10% fat between males is probably of
a roughly equivalent health and we'll
get into exactly why that is from most
situations for females yeah you know a
female of 30 percent fat is probably
gonna be healthier a bit than a female
of 35 percent on average 25% of it
healthier 20% a little bit healthier
between 15 and 20 it's roughly
equivalent so it's one of the situations
where it's kind of good news if you're
below the 25 and 35 percent respectively
for males and females especially if
you're like 5 percent below so if you
want a target to shoot for I know people
always like this and it's very difficult
to say but if you just want that target
20% for men and 25% for women
and well also I guess between 15 and 20
percent for men and and between 25
percent on 30 percent for women much
lower than that
it just doesn't yield the kind of health
effects that are gonna be anything to
write home about and other priorities
and you're dying or training yield
bigger health effects now so to put it
this way if you're below 25 percent
you're good to go but you could probably
still get leaner and still get healthier
if you're below 20% already as a male
and you're below 25% as a female the
health yield just isn't worth it and we
get into the situation where medical
professionals at this point start to see
if people are really coming from a true
health perspective on their body fat
levels or if they're starting to enter
into some confusion between health and
body composition goals aesthetic goals
and sometimes disorder body image if an
individual is coming down let's say it's
a female coming from 35% on her way down
to 25% and she says listen doc I'm doing
this for my health that's not only
believable it's encouraging and just
fine if a 25% the same female is saying
look I gotta get I want to get to 20%
because it's healthier you know the
medical professional probably has a
about a neutral opinion on that like
okay that's cool probably make you a bit
healthier but make sure you know you're
keeping the rest of your life in balance
and attending to other health concern
once the female starts to drop below 20%
body fat and trend towards 15 if she's
saying that it's for her health that's
almost certainly just not true
fundamentally I'll put it to you this
way it's like saying working on your
deadlift if you're a female up to 225
pounds or about 100 kilos will make you
more functional and most sport most
fitness and most daily life especially
daily life how much more functional will
you become in daily life if you deadlift
275 if you deadlift 315 if you 365 not
at all almost not at all maybe less
functional because you're carrying on
more muscle mass now you get more tired
so if a female tells a doctor listen I
need to lift because I need to get to
about 225 and
to really be able to pick up my
groceries take care of my kids habla a
good well trained medical professional
maybe someone a I like Trevor Ventnor at
Rp or you know as one of our friend
Spencer Nadal ski is a big Fitness
doctor crystal Guevara some some some
individuals that are medical doctors
that are very well affiliated with
lifting and understand how beneficial it
is if you tell them and you're a female
look I want to deadlift 225 for my
health they'll be all thumbs up for it
if you are already a 275 in a deadlift
as a female and you say listen I got to
get to 315 I know my blood works a
little funky but I got to do what it
takes in order to get healthier and I
want to be able to have more quality of
life above 275 to 315 they can literally
tell you they're not gonna get any more
quality of life out of that you might
actually get less so similar analogy
there with a body fats that once females
trend below 20 and once males trend much
below 10% there's really just not a
recommender for health if it's a static
argument that's fine but it's very
important to know which one it is so
that you're not lying to yourself in
line to others you're very clear on what
it is you're doing and why now so we're
pretty clear in a couple things below
25% for males below 35% for females
fundamentally good good healthy body fat
levels a bit lower than that's probably
somewhere where the optimal is under 15%
for males under 25% for females is
really not much of an argument from
health for getting any leaner now what's
too low so we'll start with males
through a variety of channels including
YouTube troll commentators and
individuals that are looking at muscular
physiques maybe in a muscle magazine for
the first time that are unacquainted
with physique sport we get a lot of this
well I can't be healthy or that's not
healthy or sometimes the more charitable
that's not healthy right
and they actually seek your conformation
but that's pretty rare usually they'll
just tell you it's not healthy a fun
intellectual game to play if you are a
jovial about it I'm not to mean is to
say Oh interesting why do you think so
and usually you get some kind of
recourse to the idea well that can't be
healthy I mean you need
body fat and you go okay neither for
what and well stretch to run dry and
actual ideas so I'm gonna say something
that's relatively controversial only
because it hasn't been exposed much to
general thought fundamentally up until
you get into low single digits two three
percent
there is not an unhealthy body fat level
for men for males that are past the
developmental stages adult males you can
hypothetically be at four percent body
fat
indefinitely and be very very healthy as
healthy as you could be past four
percent or so there is nothing you gain
health-wise from having more fat
seemingly now that is a huge thing to
say and it's true but it comes with
several caveats people will say that
there's no severity there's such a thing
as too lean for males there's a grain of
truth to that the reality is that it's
not that being too lean is unhealthy
largely is it the reality is that the
things it takes to get that lean and
stay that lean the manipulations
themselves might not be healthy so it's
not the being there it's the getting
there that's the problem right kind of
an analogy to that is once you launch a
spacecraft into orbit and the spacecraft
is orbital of the percent chance of
something going wrong once the space
shuttle for example is actually orbiting
the Earth actually really low it's
really safe up there that damn near
nothing in space all the instruments and
everything have been sealed very well
and fundamentally you're not a very high
risk and the astronauts that you see you
know filming themselves eating foods and
bubbles and orange juice and stuff they
don't seem very worried and they
shouldn't be because fundamentally being
up in space is not very dangerous
getting to space is very dangerous the
rocket launch sequence I don't have to
remind you of the many disasters that's
scary and it damn well should be because
the risk is a very high you are writing
a gigantic permanently exploding or 10
minute bomb explosion all the way up
getting too
dangerous being in space not so much
similarly the things that takes to get
to and sometimes to sustain that low
body fat percentage are the things that
end up being unhealthy so it's very very
clear that we make this distinction it's
not the low body fat themselves it's
what we're doing to get there and I'll
have an example of what that difference
is in just a bit what are the risk
factors well a lot of people to lower
their calories to those levels to get
those body fats end up eating less than
the minimum number of healthy fats
essential fats your body can't make per
day that will degrade health sometimes
they eat less or end up processing too
much and not integrating enough proteins
and that ends up being under the minimum
protein dose and that's unhealthy a lot
of times it's the lack of consumption of
vegetables fruits and whole grains to
get that lean through the carbohydrate a
reduction that it takes that ends up you
end up missing out on vitamins minerals
phytochemicals and fiber which are
critical to get in in certain amounts
and mostly come from fruits and veggies
in addition to that the fatigue levels
required for the brutal training and the
brutally hypocaloric or in the short
term hypo caloric eventually isocaloric
diet that required the fatigue levels
required to potentially train that much
to keep the body fat that low are
unsustainable they are themselves
unhealthy it's too much fatigue for too
long those are the things that get you
in trouble it's the act of it's the
rocket fuel it's the launch that gets
you in trouble it's not the low body fat
itself how do we know this first of all
to be the case and second of all that's
a good real-world example there are
athletic individuals with good genetics
that train plenty but they eat plenty
and their healthiest can be even though
they have incredibly low body fat a lot
of individuals come to mind James
Townsend one of the grind and juggernaut
athletes gentlemen that is an RP client
comes to mind he's a former NFL football
player and now at a very very successful
across vid games competitor and he
competes in a lot of weightlifting now
as well he eats a fundamentally very
healthy diet with plenty of food he
works out a lot but not on sustainably
he has single did you body fat levels
all the time just genetically he just
walks around like that are you really
going to look at him and say listen the
doctors talked it over you need to gain
fat to be healthier the answer is almost
certainly not there are a bunch of
individuals that are genetically lean a
lot of endurance athletes for example
with their combination of sustainable
training at good nutrition that are very
low body found five percent four percent
and they're as healthy as can be it's
not the percent we have to worry about
it's what it takes to get there now if
you're four percent you're telling
everyone you're as healthy as can be but
you more or less have to starve to get
there you're not getting nearly enough
of the micronutrients that we talked
about and your fatigue levels are
outlandish your health will suffer it
will absolutely suffer not an incredible
amount but again that slow and steady
degradation of health so for males
what's the healthiest body fat the
lowest one at which you can sustainably
perform eat a very well-balanced diet
for most individuals 10 to 15 percent
swear that below 10 percent usually it's
a temporary thing to try to push some
kind of exotic body composition or
lifting goal after you're done with that
coming back up to about 10 percent is
probably good for sustainability so it's
not the body fat itself it's what it
takes to get there for females it's a
different story in the short term months
and weeks there is really no big
downside for a very low body fat
percentage females as a matter of fact
if you look at the body fats of modern
physique female physique competitors
they're oftentimes in the single digits
and these girls have striated glutes and
everything they're not unhealthy people
what it takes to get there
same ideas with men if you sustain a low
body fat and you're just dieting all the
time and super chronically fatigued and
under eating micro nutrient rich foods
yes you'll pay that price as well as a
female but for the long term so for the
short term it's fine other than that
same constraint as males for the long
term there's another constraint below
about 15 percent body fat on average you
get the development of amenorrhea a lack
of menstrual cycle in females of
reproductive age at that point through a
variety of mechanisms bone loss usually
estrogen mediated bone loss starts to
occur that can eventually cause
osteopenia bone loss through age and
osteoporosis
very very harsh development of bone loss
that is medically significant later in
the later years now it doesn't happen
overnight and it doesn't happen over
five years but it happens after that so
females 15% is usually that average
cutoff now the cool thing is but because
of how most females store body fat
anything below 18% is going to be
stripped up six-pack for most girls so
you can walk around 16% still have
normal periods and have a rockin killer
body with all kinds of definition if for
a physique show or a CrossFit
competition or something you want to or
just for yourself want to push that over
the period of a couple of months to
below 15% kudos to you you'll do no real
long-term damage but if you want to live
at 10 percent or something like that
or below you're going to be causing
long-term damage especially to bone
health
so our biggest advice for females is the
lowest you should ever push it is about
15% for sustainability you want to push
below that every now and again great why
do I have to say this a lot of females
come to Renaissance those potential
clients and say I got my body fat down
I'm 16 percent fat I want to get down to
10% and we asked why there's no physique
show there's not even any goals I want
to take pictures and look at the cool
frication they're like I just want to be
at 10% and I think like that's excess
fat I could perform better and I just be
happier and healthier false demonstrably
false so females if you are chronically
above or chronically below 50% you have
normal mounts like menstrual cycles you
have nothing to worry about but if as
you inch towards the 50% you start
getting spotty periods or not at all
you have to stay higher than that for
long term reproductive and to bone
health as well and cardiovascular health
in addition to that a myriad of other
factors so females 15% and lower short
term only 15 to 20 25 30 % is where you
want to be most of the time for your
best health so to sum this up remember
it's all a spectrum conversation is
there such a thing as too fat to be
healthy no but there are such a thing as
much fatter than this number and your
at health being degraded more than it
should be in addition for males and
females sustainably being healthy
usually is something around 10% to 15%
for males and 15 to 20% for females
their big margins above that that are
just fine but those are the lowest value
folks hopefully learn something thank
you so much for tuning in see you back
time
[Music]
you