[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy what
would you say is the most important
training variable I'd say how close to
failure you train with your repetitions
is arguably the most important simply
because getting close to failure ensures
High muscle fiber Recruitment and
tension which are critical for
stimulating muscle hypertrophy but how
close to failure are we talking about do
you actually need to train to failure
the point where you physically cannot
perform another full repetition some
believe reaching this is NE necessary
for various reasons one is that training
to failure ensures we squeeze out as
many so-called effective reps as
possible on the other hand others say
it's sufficient to stop a few reps short
of failure perhaps three to one reps
from failure some say this better
balances stimulus and fatigue a brand
new study which I'd say is the best
designed one to date has compared
training to failure to stopping short of
failure let us dissect this paper fit it
into the rest of the research and then
provide some recommendations to help you
more effectively put on
muscle at least five things make this
study truly welld designed we'll reveal
these as we describe the protocol and
results of the study the researchers
recruited 18 trained individuals with an
average of 7.7 years of training
experience this is the first great thing
as this is the highest level of
experience to date in studies exploring
training into failure half of them had
competed in powerlifting or bodybuilding
the subjects performed the unilateral
leg press and unilateral leg extension
twice per week for 8 weeks with one leg
they performed all sets to complete
momentary muscular failure there is
actually footage of one of the
researchers supervising a subject going
to failure and this assures us we can be
confident failure was indeed
reached
brutality with their other leg all leg
press sets were performed with two
repetitions in reserve that is they
stopped at the point they felt two more
reps could be completed all leg
extension sets were performed with one
repetition in reserve you may be
thinking how do I know if subjects
accurately judge their had one or two
reps in reserve well the researchers
tested their accuracy before the study
and it was found they were highly
accurate they were off by less than one
repetition in both a one rep in reserve
and three reps in reserve test so I
believe we can be fairly confident the
subjects were more or less hitting the
targets here is also footage of a leg
press set performed with two repetitions
in
reserve
so this is the second great thing we
have reason to be confident subjects
train sufficiently hard the third great
thing is the simple fact each subject
trained both conditions one leg trained
to failure and the other not to failure
in other words the same people were in
the failure and non-f failure conditions
which means that factors that differ
between subjects like genetics
nutritional intake and outside lifestyle
are less likely to confound our results
moreover this design also means we have
more subjects in each condition compare
this to if we just assigned 18 subjects
into either a failure and non-f failure
group we just have nine subjects in each
condition it is valuable to know the
number of dominant legs was equally
split in each condition and every
session alternated which leg was trained
first how many sets did the subjects
perform the researchers recorded how
many sets for the quads each subject
performed in their regular training
before the study and each subject
continue training with this number
throughout the study for example say a
subject was performing 12 weekly sets
for the quads before the study in this
study they performed 12 weekly sets
equally divided between the exercises
and the training sessions halfway
through the study set numbers were
increased by 20% so with our 12 we set
example you'd now be performing 14
weekly sets this is the fourth great
thing some studies just have all
subjects perform identical set numbers
but the problem with doing this is some
subjects may be performing way more or
way fewer sets than they're usually
accustomed to which possibly confounds
the study as an additional note during
the training sessions subjects rested 4
minutes between leg press sets and 2
minutes between leg extension sets loads
were increased whenever necessary to
keep subjects reaching the desired
proximity to failure within the
specified rep ranges the fifth and final
great thing was the researchers had
subjects track their nutrition with an
app that gave them individualized
protein carob fat and overall calorie
targets to attain a monthly weight gain
of 1% here are the average nutritional
intake and body weight changes across
the 8
weeks there is a very interesting
finding surrounding Regional hypertrophy
that will uncover in a second but first
overall quadriceps growth which was the
average of the rectus florus and vastus
lateralis in this case was similar
between both conditions in other words
leaving one to two reps in reserve was
able to produce similar growth to
training to failure this is in line with
what other scientific papers have found
now there was a meta agression last year
that seemingly suggested Ed training to
failure is superior but as I detailed in
the previous video I believe this meta
aggression is evidence of how getting
close to failure is required but as the
authors of that paper mentioned there
were key considerations that meant it
absolutely does not prove training to
failure is superior besides that we have
other metaanalyses which combine the
results of numerous individual studies
finding muscle growth is similar between
training to failure and not training to
failure and here are the summaries of
three other papers that I think are
welld designed finding not training to
failure was similar to training to
failure for hypertrophy the numbers in
the papers imply the subjects not
training to failure were probably
stopping three or fewer reps from
failure with a majority of training
likely leaving one to two reps in
reserve I alluded to an interesting
finding about Regional hypertrophy what
was I told talking about remember the
quadriceps growth in this study was
averaged from the rectus femoris and
vasus lateralis however when looking at
just the vastest lateralis the growth
slightly favored the leg that trained to
failure but when looking at the rectus
florus the growth slightly favored the
leg that did not train to failure the
researchers provide a fascinating
speculation the leg press was always
trained before the leg extension in the
training sessions there's evidence as
will be covered in future videos at the
house of hypertrophy that the leg press
better grows the vastest lateralis while
the leg extension better grows the
rectus femoris with the leg that trained
to failure failure might have maximized
the stimulus on the leg press and thus
explains the better vastest lateralis
growth but the fatigue from this may
have subsequently impaired the stimulus
on the leg extension thus explaining the
slightly worse rectus foror growth if
true this suggests an intriguing
interaction between between failure and
exercise order although there is
evidence against this specifically this
paper was briefly presented earlier it
had trained individuals also perform the
leg press before the leg extension with
one leg going to complete failure and
the other leg likely stopping one to two
reps from failure these researchers only
measured vastest lateralis hypertrophy
and if the logic stated moments ago is
true we'd expect the failure leg to see
slightly better V lateralis hypertrophy
but this didn't happen the gains were
actually nonsignificantly better for the
non-failure leg so in total I don't
think we can definitely say what
explains these slight hypertrophy
differences before providing some key
takeaways it is worth touching on
fatigue the researchers took indirect
neuromuscular fatigue measurements
during the training sessions and they
partially suggest as the week's went by
training to failure somewhat improved
fatigue resistance on the leg press for
those interested in the details behind
this I describ this in the pinned
comment anyhow the researchers didn't
measure fatigue and Recovery in the days
after the training sessions but we can
generally be confident recovery is
always going to be quicker when not
training to failure for example this
paper had trained individuals perform
six sets on the barbell bench press
training to failure on all sets led to
slower recovery and more soreness
compared to leaving one and three reps
in reserve considering this if you're
someone trying to limit fatigue for a
variety of potential reasons this is
best done by not training to failure yet
this absolutely does not mean the
fatigue from training to failure is
always concerning and unmanageable we've
clearly seen it doesn't harm growth in
many cases moreover as described
previously at the house of hypertrophy I
think it's likely as you accustom
yourself to training to failure your
body produces a range of adaptations
that partly reduce the fatigue damage
and soreness you experience it can be
tricky and very challenging to construct
your own muscle building program but the
alpha progression app which is
essentially your personal clever muscle
building assistant in the palm of your
hand can easily help you with hundreds
of thousands of downloads thousands of
reviews speak to its unmatched quality
other apps truly generate garbage
programs but this app intelligently gets
you closer to your dream physique
through generating an evidence-based
program 100% customizable to your needs
simply let it know all about you your
experience level the equipment you have
how often and how long you can train for
and if you want to focus or neglect
certain muscles this can all take less
than a minute and you can still make
further edits if you like the app has
extra impressive features during
workouts the apps algorithm carefully
suggests how you make Progressive
overload to help push you to the next
level aesthetic graphs automatically
display your long-term progress and
there is a huge exercise database of all
the best muscle building exercises try
out every single one of the premium
features to your heart's desire during a
free twoe tral through the link in the
comments and description if you like it
and choose to go beyond the link cuts
the price of a subscription by 20% I
truly believe the app is exceptional and
I hope you'll enjoy it
[Music]
too stopping a few rep short to failur
seems to be able to produce similar
muscle growth to training to failure
however there are three final things you
may consider remember that in the new
study subjects were performing the same
number of sets they were accustomed to
with a 20% increase Midway through the
study the authors noted this resulted in
subjects largely performing 10 to 17
weekly sets for the quads throughout the
study much of the other well-designed
literature on training to failure used 6
to 19 weekly sets per muscle group thus
the results are specific to this broad
set number range some people may like to
train with a very low number of weekly
sets per muscle group we know this is
likely not optimal for hypertrophy on
average but we've described previously
how this can be a time efficient way to
see some Fair growth in this context
it's possible training to failure is
better in fact this study had subjects
largely performed two weekly sets per
muscle group one group went to complete
failure while another stopped just shy
of failure muscle mass increases were
better with training to failure although
the muscle mass measures in this paper
were not the most precise so more
studies are needed to validate this but
if you are someone who trains with a
very low number of weekly sets per
muscle group it is generally more
manageable to train to failure the
second consideration is it's entirely
possible to combine both failure and
non-failure training into a program
there could be benefits to this and it
would be neat to have future studies
exploring combining both in any case one
benefit is that regularly having some
failure in your program can keep you
accustomed to how failure feels which
could help your accuracy when you choose
to leave reps in reserve the third
consideration is the type of exercise
currently the majority of the highest
quality literature on training to
failure has trained the quads a muscle
group that is tough to train to failure
but with isolation exercises that train
smaller muscles it is relatively easier
and less demanding to train to failure
in fact some might suggest with these
kinds of exercises training to failure
is superior but the current limited
evidence isn't Crystal clear one study
seems to suggest with a barbell biceps
curl training to failure was Superior to
leaving around three or four reps in
reserve but another suggests with the
same exercise leaving one or two reps in
reserve was similar to failure anyhow If
You're Happy and capable of doing so you
may choose to push the failure on the
majority of your upper body isolation
work thank you for watching feel free to
check out the alpha progression app or
our recent deep dive into building the
lats