[Music]
[Applause]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week my
girlfriend stephanie and i are going to
be looking at how to perform the hip
thrust with perfect technique but before
we jump into the technique itself let's
take a quick look at what muscles we're
going to be targeting so with the hip
thrust we're training almost pure hip
extension so when you take your hips
from a flexed or bent position to a
straight or extended position and we can
also target the glutes through hip
abduction by placing a hip circle or
glute loop around the knees and the hip
thrust is a unique exercise because it
not only has a huge capacity for
overload but it can also be used to
establish a strong mind muscle
connection with the glutes you can see
dr brett contreras hip thrusting over
700 pounds with perfect technique and
this is katy sonnier doing over 500
pounds for reps at 120 pounds body
weight the hip thrust has also become a
very well studied exercise in 2015 dr
contreras and colleagues found that the
hip thrust elicited higher glute emg
activation than the back squat which was
then followed up with the first ever hip
thrust twin case study where across a
six week time frame the twin that did
the hip thrust saw significantly more
upper and lower glute growth than the
twin who did squats now these results
probably come from the fact that the hip
thrust loads the glutes at and beyond
the neutral hip position whereas
vertically loaded movements like the
squat and deadlift tend to lose tension
at the top when the glutes are in or
near full hip extension now the biggest
downside to the hip thrust is probably
the setup there are pieces of specialty
equipment like the hip thruster which
can make it much easier but if you don't
have access to these here's a simple
three-step setup first find a bench that
matches your tibia or lower leg height a
decline bench often works for this and
set it up against a rack wall or other
stable base of support so it doesn't
slide back second you want to wrap a
thick pad or towel around the bar for
cushioning and third you can load up the
bar in front of the bench now the hip
thrust is very versatile and that you
can go quite heavy on it in the four to
eight rep zone if your primary goal is
to build strength however i think you
should stick to a more moderate to high
rep range around 8 to 15 reps if your
main goal is hypertrophy and as you
master technique it's important to start
light and gradually work your way up so
that you don't let your form slip just
to set prs so you want to position
yourself between the bench and the bar
making sure the bar is centered on your
hips and the pad is centered on the bar
place your upper back up against the
bench and take a slightly wider than
shoulder width stance with about 15
degrees of foot flare and as you warm up
with light weight you can adjust your
feet and hip placement so that your
tibia or lower leg and femur or upper
leg make a 90 degree angle at the top of
each rep before initiating the thrust
you should flex your glutes and then
focus on squeezing your glutes to move
the weight straight up and unlike the
squat rather than thinking about driving
your feet through the ground you can
just focus on fully extending your hips
until you can't move the weight up any
further and you should feel an extremely
strong contraction in your glutes doing
this now throughout the positive you
should be gazing straight ahead not up
with your chin and rib cage tucked down
and at the top you should be squeezing
your glutes together as hard as you can
as if there's a coin between your butt
cheeks and you're trying to prevent it
from falling out this may take time to
master but you should also focus on
posteriorly rotating your pelvis at the
top by contracting down on your abs
slightly which is going to help pull
your glutes into full hip extension and
prevent undesired hyperextension of the
low back instead now throughout the
positive you want to use your hands to
stabilize the bar from wobbling from
side to side you don't want to use your
arms to help jack the weight up now if
you're feeling it more in your quads
than in your glutes now you can try
shifting your feet further forward
however for some this is just going to
shift the emphasis onto the hamstrings
so you want to play around with your
stance with and your hip position and
degree of foot flare to find a position
that feels best for your proportions as
an intensity technique you can use a one
to three second pause at the top
however when training for strength i
just recommend a quick squeeze at
lockout and then immediately begin the
negative by lowering the weight under
control as your glutes stretch under the
load and because the temptation to just
let the weight fall on the hip thrust is
stronger than on many other movements i
generally recommend a slower eccentric
tempo so the negative should last for
just about a two second count on each
rep so that you can actively focus on
this crucial lowering phase of the
movement now i would say the most common
error that i see here is failure to
fully lock out the hips at the top
failure to fully lock out can result
from using too much weight but i think
it's much more common for people to
avoid lockout just because it really
does burn and if you aren't feeling that
burn in your glutes at the top then you
most likely aren't fully extending your
hips and your hips should be above your
knees at the top of every rep another
very common error is to extend your
lower back instead of the glutes and you
want to remember from earlier that you
should try to rotate your pelvis
posteriorly at the top by crunching your
abs slightly and even just keeping your
chin down will help with this so i want
you guys to try this really quickly so
what i want you to do is intentionally
have an arch in your lower back and try
squeezing your glutes together as hard
as you can and i want you to contract
your abs a little bit which is going to
flatten out your lower back and then try
squeezing your glutes as hard as you can
like this you should feel a much
stronger glute contraction when your
lower back is flat as opposed to when
it's arched so same thing applies for
the hip thrust when you're locking out
at the top you really want to avoid that
arch in your lower back crunch down on
your abs and then that way you'll get
your glutes to fire the hardest at the
top i'm actually not sure if there is a
truly equal alternative to the hip
thrust if you're using higher reps then
you can set up the hip thrust on the leg
extension machine glute bridge is a good
option if you're tight on time which is
the same basic movement except here
you're setting up with your upper back
on the ground rather than on the bench
which will limit the range of motion a
bit that is probably the next best thing
also variations on the hip thrust like
the single leg hip thrust or the knee
banded hip thrust are great to include
which is going to challenge the glutes
through hip abduction hitting the side
and upper aspects of the glutes a little
bit more as well so guys that's all that
i have for the hip thrust i've decided
i'm going to put my glute hypertrophy
program and women's specialization
programs on sale for the launch of this
video i've discussed the differences
between those at the end of my last
video on the glute kickback if you want
to check that out but really quick the
glute hypertrophy program is a five day
per week intermediate program and the
women's specialization program is a six
day per week advanced program both with
a focus on the glutes but with the full
body being targeted in a balanced way
now so you guys can grab those at the
discounted priced for the next week only
at jeffnipper.com and i'll have that at
the first link in the description box
below if you'd like to read more um so
thank you guys so much for watching uh
please leave me a like if you enjoyed
the video don't forget to subscribe so
that you don't miss future technique
tuesday episodes and i'll see you guys
all here next week
as if there's a coin between your butt
cheeks and you're trying to prevent it
from falling out
[Laughter]