[Music]
welcome back RP plus RP you dr. James
Hoffman here and today we're going to be
finishing up our basics of physiology
series and today we're on part three if
you haven't watched part 1 and 2 yet you
might want to go back and take a look at
those as some of the things that we
talked about in today's lecture might
not make as much sense so in part 1 we
talked about basic chemical reactions
biomolecules parts of cells in part 2 we
talked about the concept of homeostasis
and acute as responses versus chronic
adaptations things like that today what
we want to talk about really really
interesting basic body systems and some
of the structures and functions involved
in those body systems now if we take a
look at the overview we're not going to
talk about every single body system body
structure and every single hormone and
crazy thing that we could talk about
we're going to keep it pretty simple and
really my goal for you for today if you
are not familiar with many of the
different body systems and some of the
structures and functions of those things
just to get kind of a rudimentary
familiarity with some of those things so
if we start talking about the heart we
talked about you know digestive tract
things like that we have a pretty good
fundamental understanding of what those
things are now this is more or less
meant to get you kind of prepped and
familiar with these topics it's not
super in-depth mostly just for you to
have a basic understanding before you go
on and take some of the more challenging
courses later on in exercise physiology
nutrition and some of the training ones
so more again kind of to whet your
whistle on some of these topics and just
make sure we're all up to speed on the
same terms so we're not going to go over
everything possible and we're not going
to go super crazy detail but we're going
to give a pretty good brief description
of all these things and hopefully it
will have a pretty good idea of how
these all work alright let's get started
so the first one today I want to talk to
you guys about is the cardiovascular
system most of us are pretty familiar
with this so the cardiovascular system
is basically everything pertaining to
how blood is exchanged throughout the
body so if we want to be more specific
we're gonna be talking about the heart
arteries veins and different vessels
that are carrying oxygenated or
deoxygenated blood some of it could be
full of waste some it could be full of
nutrients any and all of those things
right anything that is carrying blood
from one part of the body to another
some way shape or form
right so what are some of the primary
functions of the cardiovascular system
well obviously we need to transport
blood but to be more specific really
what we're trying to do with the
cardiovascular system is outlined here
on the slide right the first one deliver
oxygen to the body tissues and so in our
discussion we're primarily focused on
getting oxygen to the working muscle
during exercise right that's an obvious
one but it applies to all body tissues
as well we want to deliver energy
substrate to tissue so we're actually
going to be circulating things like
carbohydrates amino acids and some fatty
acids in the blood that have to
circulate and make their way around the
body to be used for energy we're going
to be removing things like carbon
dioxide and a lot of metabolic waste
that tends to accumulate in certain
areas especially like the muscle tissue
so what you guys will learn later on
there are numerous chemical reactions
involved in energy breakdown and a lot
of those things result in the
accumulation of byproducts no surprise
there right we already talked about that
a little bit well those byproducts are
wastes right they can sometimes have a
potential effect in the body a positive
effect on the body but a lot of times
can be negative as well so the body
picks up on that is waste and it has to
shovel it out and either be reprocessed
or excreted right so the blood is the
mechanism in which we generally do that
where we have waste accumulating some
where it gets shuttled into the blood
moved into somewhere to be processed and
then either excreted or repurposed right
so we got to get rid of that carbon
dioxide and some waste products we're
going to be using the blood to regulate
acid-base balance so in some cases and
exercise we can actually see really
really large changes in the pH of
certain tissues like the muscle tissues
as a result of working out really really
hard the blood helps us buffer that out
a little bit so that it's not getting
this like huge huge crazy systemic
effect so the blood kind of helps act as
a buffer when we start accumulating
really really high amounts of protons
and then our pH goes down we get acidity
so instead of just having total body
acidity the blood helps us manage it and
keep more local a city's acidity so we
don't have this like systemic nasty pH
effect right also really important in
transportation of a lot of our different
biomolecules so we already mentioned
energy substrates but one of the big
part of purposes of blood one of the big
functions is actually to start
transporting some of those chemical
messengers throughout the body
things like hormones
and other chemical messengers travel
through the bloodstream and actually hit
target cells on their surface somewhere
else and then can have whatever effect
that they're going to happen we're
actually gonna talk about that a little
bit later and then of course we want to
regulate not only fluid balance but also
thermo regulation within the body so the
blood plays a huge role and making sure
that our water levels are good and we're
also thermo regulating meaning not
getting too hot or not getting too cold
under various conditions so more than
just what we generally think right well
usually we think heart blood oxygen and
that's true with a lot of other stuff as
well so let's go onto the next slide so
no surprise here if you guys have seen a
heart before that's what it looks like
at least a diagram version so the heart
blump blump s-- is that a new word I
just made that up
how heart pumps blood all throughout the
body right and we know that the heart is
made of several chambers it has several
valves rent the ones that are most
important to us are the four big ones
that we like to call the atria and the
ventricles so typically we look at it in
this order so if you look on the slide
the first one says the right atrium
that's RA receives deoxygenated blood
and waste right so essentially this is a
chamber that receives used blood and
kind of fills it up and collects it
eventually the blood will make its way
into the right ventricle which will pump
that deoxygenated blood into the lungs
where it can do gas exchange and
potentially remove things like carbon
dioxide through exhalation eventually
that's going to make its way into the
left atrium where that now rich
oxygenated blood will be collected and
then eventually the left ventricle will
be the pumping mechanism that pumps to
that nice fresh oxygenated blood back
throughout the body so when we're
thinking about these things we want to
make sure we're clear with some of the
terms and most of you who have taken
biology or anatomy and physiology or any
kind of Health Sciences classes are
probably familiar with this but it's
always good to kind of brush up on it
make sure we're good so if you look on
this next slide we have some terms right
we have arteries and veins so arteries
are tubules that carry oxygenated blood
away from the heart right so when we're
talking about things that our arteries
arteries are carrying that fresh or at
least relatively full of oxygen blood to
other tissues in the body where they
pick up and use some of that oxygen
later on if they need to things like
skeleton muscle right no surprise there
veins on the other hand are carrying
deoxygenated blood back towards the
heart so that could be oxygenated to get
inside the lungs right so arteries is
fresh oxygenated blood going away from
the heart veins deoxygenated blood where
the oxygen has been extracted out by the
body tissues now needs to be
re-energized or refilled with oxygen at
the lungs so if we're looking at it in
terms of size we have arteries being the
biggest generally moving into arterioles
which are smaller vessels moving into
capillaries which are generally the
smallest ones that we're going to be
discussing and on the other end with
veins we have veins Daniels and venous
sinuses so here's a nice little diagram
kind of what this looks like and we can
see right where the heart pumps blood
into the lungs then it pumps that back
through the body and we can see some
exchange there with the arteries and
veins as the oxygen gets extracted from
various parts of the body so hopefully
nothing crazy new there most of us are
familiar with this let's go on to the
next one so we know that the
cardiovascular system plays a huge role
in a number of exercise related tasks so
we know first off the cardiovascular
system in conjunction with the muscle
system is very very much responsible for
blood flow distribution so one of the
cool things that happens during exercise
is that blood flow actually gets
redistributed to working tissues and
actually gets constricted away from
non-essential tissues so we don't just
see normal blood flow right it doesn't
just occur kind of uniformly at all
times what we actually see is once you
start exercising and start working
certain muscle groups we actually start
to see blood flow preferentially moving
towards those working muscles and away
from non-working muscles or non-working
organs which is pretty cool so very very
important for us we also see the
cardiovascular system playing a role in
respiration
now this occurs through a number of
different mechanisms the two that we're
really kind of concerning ourselves with
as pH balance and what I have listed as
vo2 DIF right and which is actually the
arterial venous sometimes called AV o2
difference so we're talking about pH
balance one of the big roles of the
cardiovascular system is to remove that
carbon dioxide
unfortunately for us when we start
accumulating carbon dioxide an aqueous
solution or like water solution it turns
into carbonic acid and tends to have a
negative effect on pH meaning it brings
pH down makes the blood or the tissues
more acidic so the way that we get rid
of that is actually by exhaling it out
of the lungs and most of you are
familiar with when we inhale we breathe
oxygen in and then we exhale a great
deal of carbon dioxide out this is one
of the primary mechanisms in which we
actually buffer and balance pH in the
blood so very important for that and
then we also can see as exercise
continues there starts to become a
bigger gap between the o2 content in the
arteries and the veins and that's as a
result of the muscles actually
extracting more oxygen out of the blood
so we see a bigger difference in between
the two which is kind of unique so when
we actually start to see larger
increases in what we call a vo2 diff
right as a result of the oxygen that's
inside the muscle being used up and now
having to extract more from the blood we
typically see increases in respiration
as well to accommodate that new demand
right we also know as we already
mentioned cardiovascular system is used
for delivery of nutrients and removal of
waste so we'll see increases in during
exercise and things like a carbohydrate
in the bloodstream either to maintain
blood glucose levels or to be picked up
for oxidation inside the muscle itself
we can also see in long term kind of
like two hours plus exercise conditions
increases in circulating free fatty
acids that can be used and shuttled in
the blood and then eventually make their
way into the muscle to be used for
cellular respiration really really cool
and as we already mentioned accumulating
byproducts need to get removed one way
shape or form and they tend to
accumulate more and more and more during
high intensity and volume in this
exercise so we see a bigger reliance on
the cardiovascular system to start
removing those waste products especially
things like our carbon dioxide no
surprise we already mentioned delivery
of chemical messengers so now we can
actually see hormones during exercise
playing a huge role in regulating a lot
of our different homeostatic processes
one of which that you'll learn more
about later is what we call by oh excuse
me bioenergetics which is how
our body uses different energy
substrates to produce work and produce
movement right much of this is actually
governed by our endocrine system and our
endocrine system operates by using
chemical messengers which travel through
the bloodstream so the blood is
responsible for kind of having that's
kind of like the UPS for our body right
where we have a message that needs to
get sent to a different tissue we send
it through the mail system eventually
makes its way to that other tissue
through the blood and that's how
hormones generally work and then as we
ready mention maintenance of blood
glucose during exercise very very
important your nervous system
particularly your brain only well not
only but really really preferentially
operates on glucose and blood glucose
therefore is very very tightly regulated
and we see a lots and lots of negative
feedback occurring during exercise to
maintain a certain level of blood
glucose at all times we don't like our
blood glucose getting out of its optimal
range we'll see lots and lots and lots
of homeostatic control of the blood
glucose levels makes sense all right so
let's go on to the next one the next
system we want to talk about is the
respiratory system now a lot of people
tend to think of these and this and the
cardiovascular system kind of
hand-in-hand and it makes sense because
they do definitely work in conjunction
with each other but they are also
distinct at the same time
so the respire Ettore system does work
in conjunction with the cardiovascular
system to effectively deliver oxygen to
all tissues and remove carbon dioxide
like we already mentioned so we have
four main processes that occur through
the respiratory system
the first one is pulmonary ventilation
which is just the act of breathing and
doing kind of large-scale gas exchange
where we're actually bringing in and
exhaling gas atmospheric gas into the
body we have pulmonary diffusion this is
where we actually see gas exchange
occurring inside the lungs and at the
the blood level where we have the
alveoli and the capillaries interacting
and exchanging gas across those tissues
eventually once we have that nice gas
exchange occurring we're gonna transport
oh - and that oxygenated blood to the
rest of the body and vice versa
we're going to get rid of that carbon
dioxide and do the gas exchange in the
lungs so we can breathe out that carbon
dioxide waste and then last but not
least we have capillary diffusion which
is when we're actually going to be
extracting oxygen
from the blood to be used in things like
the working tissues in our case the
working skeletal muscle right so let's
move on to the next talk about these a
little bit here we see a nice chart that
I got from one of the Human Kinetics
books really really great diagram of
kind of a gross scale and a finite scale
of what a respire Tory system looks like
so we breathe in air either through our
nasal cavity or through the mouth we
make our way down into the trachea where
it goes into the bronchi those branch
out into multiple more bronchi x' until
eventually we make our way down to the
alveolar level and here we can see a
nice depiction of gas exchange current
at the alveolar level where we have
veins bringing that deoxygenated blood
they exchange at the alveoli and then we
can see that rich arterial blood or if
you I had that vice versa sorry and we
can see the nice arterial blood
eventually making its way back out into
the body so this is where we see that
gas exchange occurring and I really like
this diagram it's a really nice
depiction of how this process works so
take a look at this if you're not
familiar with some of this stuff really
really neat let's go onto the next slide
so again this is just kind of a
reiteration of what I already just said
when we inspire we breathe in it goes
through our mouth or through our nose
and it makes its way down this occurs
through contraction of the diaphragm
muscle which is deep inside your trunk
and then from the external intercostal
muscles the way this works is
essentially these muscles contract and
what this does is it actually increases
the volume inside your trunk and
particularly inside your thoracic cavity
right what we see here is now we had
some amount of gas some amount of
pressure inside this cavity and what I
have done by actually expanding it out
I've actually decreased the pressure
inside this cavity simply by increasing
the volume so as a result what we get is
passive airflow moving in to the lungs
as a result of this change in pressure
so I've changed the volume of the
chamber right which then changes the
pressure inside the chamber and now
we've actually generated a pressure
gradient between what's inside the lungs
and what's inside the atmosphere so by
expanding my ribcage out and my sternum
out I'm increasing the volume of my
lungs
unfortunately that decreases the
pressure but that's a good thing because
that's actually
creating a pressure gradient between me
and the external environment and then
air will and not just air but gas will
pass passively through and that's the
whole process of breathing nothing too
crazy there so lots of physics and
partial pressure laws going into
application here right now
when we exhale this is mostly a passive
process and so when we actually let the
air come back out it's largely as a
result of us just relaxing our
inspiratory muscles there are some
differences which you're going to learn
about later on doing a forced exhalation
where you actually have to really really
push the air out but for the most part
we do have some active inspiratory
muscles that cause the Chamber's to
expand and then when we want to exhale
we do it mostly passively just by
relaxing those muscles we can do forced
exploration it's just a different
circumstance
make sense all right let's go on to the
next one so inspired air goes in through
the nose or through the mouth it makes
its way into the trachea where it then
reaches the two primary bronchi and then
they kind of branch out and then
essentially we see that gas moving
through a series of different bronchi
and then eventually leading to
bronchioles and then eventually leading
to the smaller exchange surface called
the alveoli so we know that the
capillaries surround the alveoli and
allow that oxygen and carbon dioxide
exchange to occur right so this is kind
of the articulating surface where we
have blood and the lungs interacting and
this is where we actually exchange gas
so it's at the alveoli which is really
really neat the way that this works is
very similar to what we learned in some
of the previous lectures about active
and passive transport so for the gas to
exchange between the alveoli and the
blood there has to be a pressure
gradient which is very very similar to
what we talked about before with
concentration gradients remember before
we talked about diffusion and osmosis
and we said in order for things to flow
passively there has to be a difference
there has to be a high concentration and
a low concentration this is virtually
that same idea it's technically not the
same thing but for our purposes if we
can kind of use that synonymously it's
not technically but it it's very very
similar so in this case what we have is
a pressure gradient not necessarily a
concentration gradient which again
operates mostly the same way so in this
case in order for carbon
oxide to leave an order for oxygen to
enter there has to be a difference
between what is in the blood and
essentially what is in the atmosphere
and more specifically what is in the
alveoli so in order for us to bring in
oxygen to that deoxygenated blood there
has to be more oxygen available than
what's actually inside the bloodstream
and the same applies for carbon dioxide
if we want to unload carbon dioxide from
the blood we have to have a high
concentration or high partial pressure
of carbon dioxide in our blood and
relatively low in the alveoli and the
atmosphere and that's how we're going to
unload that carbon dioxide so same idea
applies for both not only oxygen but for
carbon dioxide as well we're gonna get a
nice graph of this coming up on the next
slide another good one from the human
kinetics people they make really great
figures I love it I love it I want to
give them as much credit here as
possible so here we can see kind of what
this looks like and we actually have
some numbers we can play around with it
we don't need to make this to Matthew
but essentially what we have right as we
have oxygenated blood it makes its way
to the body to the working tissues what
we find is that that oxygenated blood
has a nice high partial pressure of
oxygen which is great when we get to the
working muscles for example when we
start doing exercise we have some stored
oxygen that's just kind of hanging out
locally in the tissue when we start
doing some exercise we burn that up
right away through cellular respiration
so our energy generating processes start
using up the available oxygen within the
tissue so now as that blood starts
making its way to the working muscle
we've actually created a pressure
gradient between the blood and the
working muscle so I have this
oxygen-rich blood that's flowing around
and I have this muscle tissue which has
used up its resting supply of oxygen so
now I have a high concentration here a
low concentration here what we're gonna
see is actually diffusion occurring
across and now we're going to start
extracting oxygen from the blood because
it has a high concentration into the
muscle right so that's why we do that
because there's a pressure gradient so
then after the muscle starts sucking out
some of the o2 from the blood and
probably pumping it full of carbon
dioxide because it's been doing energy
production and the carbon dioxide is a
waste product of that now will actually
start to see that blood flowing into the
veins now the pressure of oxygen has
gone down and the partial pressure of
carbon dioxide has gone
that's going to make its way eventually
back into the the veins and all the way
up to the heart where it's going to go
gas exchange in the lungs and then what
do we see we actually see a pressure
gradient between oxygen and the alveoli
in the excuse me in the veins and in the
alveoli and in this case you can see a
partial pressure of 105 vs. 40 then
don't worry about the numbers too much
here it's just an example same thing
applies for carbon dioxide we see a
partial pressure gradient there of 46
versus 40 so what we're going to see in
the capillaries and in the alveoli is
this gas exchange as a result of these
pressure gradients and so then we say
okay well I'm tapped out of oxygen I'm
gonna pull oxygen in and I have all this
excessive carbon dioxide I'm gonna blow
that out so and then I've kind of
reached a more normal homeostatic level
of these things in my blood that
circulates back through and then goes
back to whatever tissues needs to use it
so that's kind of the basis of how that
works and that's why we breathe make
sense all right I really like this
diagram let's go on to the next one so
the respiro Torrey system cardiovascular
system play a huge role in regulating
homeostasis at rest and during exercise
conditions one of the other systems
that's really really noteworthy in this
regulation is the endocrine system and
something we've already talked about a
little bit the endocrine system is one
of the biggest biggest biggest internal
monitors of homeostasis and one of the
biggest regulators of various
homeostatic processes and it does that
through the release of hormones which
are generally proteins that act on
specific cells to do specific things so
it's pretty neat this discussion can be
expansive we're going to keep it
relatively simple because you're going
to learn more and more about this as you
study exercise physiology we're just
going to do a nice quick easy overview
for this one so the endocrine system
integrates virtually all other body
systems at rest and during exercise
conditions so it's not just one thing it
really incorporates the entire body so
we typically see hormones being released
as a use excuse me as a homeostatic
regulator using negative feedback
meaning something unfavorable has
changed we have picked up on it the body
will start releasing hormones to do
negative feedback to try and change make
a change opposing the negative change
that has occurred right so essentially
negative feedback says hey
this is happening I'm gonna try and
squash that so we go back to our normal
homeostatic range for whatever variable
we're looking at so hormones typically
do that through pulsatile release and
negative feedback meaning we start
picking up on these changes that are
unfavorable and we start kind of
pulsatilla sending hormones out into the
bloodstream so we don't see like a
continuous steady stream release of
hormones is kind of like BAM rest BAM
rest more pulse total action right and
that's typically what we see with
negative feedback anyway so one of the
problems that we see with hormones is
that they're not kind of a end-all
be-all solution one of the things that
are very very specific for hormones is
that there has to be a hormone specific
cell receptor at the surface of whatever
tissue we want the hormone to act on so
we could be sending cortisol insulin
epinephrine norepinephrine through the
bloodstream but unfortunately if they
don't have a specific cell receptor on
the tissue that we want to act on it's
not going to do anything so there is a
specific hormone cell receptor for any
given hormone on the surface of various
cells within any given organ or tissue
right so it has to actually have a
specific cell receptor so you can think
of like Circle Square triangle game like
when you're a little kid right so the
triangles floating through it has to hit
the triangle on the cell otherwise it
will not act and we have a really nice
diagram on the next slide here and I
know if you've watched the other video
we already talked about hormones a
little bit but I really like this is
another human kinetics really really
nice job on this diagram so we see okay
there are some steroid hormone risks
that's floating around the hormone binds
to some specific receptor at the cell
surface which then allows it to act out
produce an mRNA and then get the protein
generating the response that we want so
we can talk about this a little bit more
later on in other classes but for now
this is just kind of the quick and dirty
version of how this works so really
really nice I like that figure a lot
thank you very much next slide so we
know that hormones regulate a variety of
systems relating to exercise and
recovery as well so we usually think of
hormones and I think most commonly we
think of like stress responses we think
of bioenergetic regulation but actually
regulates more than a few things right
so obviously substrate level metabolism
no brainer most people are
with that it does regulate stress
responses and it does regulate kind of
recovery and abalones and responses but
it also plays a big role in regulating
things like fluid and electrolyte
balance as well as hunger and satiety so
again the endocrine system regulates
virtually all body systems and
incorporates them together through
primarily negative feedback so if we
look on the next couple slides we have a
whole bunch of examples now this is not
inclusive by any means this is just some
that I picked out that I thought would
be useful for you to see right so
typically where are some ones that are
we are particularly concerned with with
exercise and nutrition and recovery
stuff well for example if we look at the
thyroid gland it produces three oxen
which is t3 and t4 form this axon all
organs right and it's something that
will increase the body's metabolic rate
right other things that are important if
we look at the adrenal cortex it can
secrete cortisol which will act on most
cells and cortisol is one of our primary
stress hormones and will start
increasing catabolism breakdown of
things generally for energy and
unfortunately for us that also includes
things like proteins which could affect
skeletal muscles things like that right
so excuse me again not all-inclusive by
any means we can do the next slide we
see some more examples if we look at the
pancreas the pancreas is kind of
interesting one we can actually see it
releases insulin and glucagon through
different cells insulin acts on all
cells to have a very anabolic effect the
insulin is kind of like the vacuum
cleaner hormone it starts sucking things
up and uses them to build things up for
storage or for structure so we actually
see glucose has an effect on lowering
blood glucose I guess blood glucose gets
out of its optimal range too high
insulin gets released and actually
starts pulling that blood glucose out
and then can be stored in the liver
or in the muscle as glycogen or
potentially as fat in some cases if
we're getting too much and our glycogen
stores are nice and full can also affect
things like amino acids build up into
proteins and it can affect things like
storing increases amounts of fat right
whereas glucagon on the other hand kind
of has the opposing effect where when
sometimes we don't have enough blood
glucose and we actually need to start
breaking things down to try and pump our
blood glucose back up so we'll actually
see it increases blood glucose typically
through breaking things down like
glycogenolysis lipolysis or proteolysis
pipe
breaking down on other things carbs fats
proteins to start increasing blood
glucose as much as we can within our
optimal range so again these are just
some by all not all inclusive by all
means and you're going to be learning
more and more about hormones so I would
say take a look at the ones on the
tables that I listed be vaguely familiar
with what they are and what they do and
that will make a lot more sense later on
when you get deeper and deeper into
exercise physiology so again can't say
enough things about the endocrine system
regulates all body systems in an
integrated way generally through
negative feedback and chemical
messengers okay so now we're getting
kind of into the meat and potatoes of
today's the first one I wanted to talk
about regarding muscle systems is the
musculoskeletal system so I think it's
worth differentiating some of these we
could say like skeletal system we could
say muscle system we could say nervous
system we could really break those down
for our purposes we're going to be
talking about exercise nutrition
recovery so for for us we can talk about
the muscles and bones being kind of one
system because it makes sense in this
context so the skeletal muscle system is
the primary means for us to actually
provide structural support for the by so
we're not just like a big limp pile of
jell-o or skin right and it provides the
basis for all the human movement that we
want to do right so when we're talking
about the musculoskeletal system we're
essentially talking about all the
skeletal muscle talking about bones
tendons ligaments fashio all the joints
that we have like our elbow joint
shoulder joint sternum joint right knee
joint all that stuff and then any other
connective tissues relating to movement
so lots and lots of stuff there lots and
lots of muscle and connective tissue
let's move on to the next one so there
are 206 bones and a varying degree of
muscles in the body generally most
people will say over 600 within the body
the muscles act by pulling or shortening
right so muscles don't actually forcibly
lengthen they only forcibly shorten they
can lengthen against resistance where
they can lengthen while being contracted
but they don't expand out they only
shorten and they pull on tendons and
bones in order to generate human
movement right hopefully no surprise
there we know that each muscle has its
own origin and insertion and you're
gonna learn more and more about this
later on and we don't have to go crazy
on this but the origin is essential
the anchoring point for the muscle that
does not move so we can think of
something like a bicep or quadricep or
any of any any joint and muscle related
to it it has an origin which means
basically the lockdown foundational
point of the muscle that will not move
and then we have the insertion which is
where it is acting on the articulating
surface that we want to move and the
insertion will move in the direction
generally of shortening of the muscle
right so if we are looking at a bicep
curl or something like that
we know the insertion is down here and
you're gonna catch me on the spot I
don't always remember all the origins
insertions because it's really long and
expansive you got to look it up every
now and again right so we know that for
the elbow joint the insertion is
actually going to be moving in the
direction of shortening right in this
case whereas the origin which is
somewhere up here I believe on the
humerus or this may be proximal to the
scapula but it's up on the humerus right
it's not going anywhere
that's stay exactly where it started
whereas the insertion is going to move
in the direction of shortening right so
the origin stays where it is the
insertion moves around as the muscle
shortens nothing crazy there so we know
that the muscles are attached to tendons
which then attach to bones we also know
that bones can be attached to each other
through ligaments so when we're talking
about muscle and bone interaction
there's an intermediate tendon in there
we can have bone and bone interaction
and the intermediate there is a ligament
both are made of collagen fibers and
operate on very very similar levels so
let's go on to the next slide so here's
just an example of what we were talking
about here right here's an example on
the Left we have an elbow joint and we
can see the biceps brachii we can see
the origin and the insertion we can see
where the tendons interact with the back
xual biceps muscle and how it originates
up there and we can actually see the
same thing down here on the insertion
where on the radius there's that nice
tendon in between and then in the elbow
joint which is not necessarily depicted
here we can also see there's different
ligaments that hold the elbow joint
together other tendons involved and
another example here on the right is the
knee joint and this one's a really nice
example because we can see at the top we
have the quadriceps and then we have the
patellar tendon attaching the quadriceps
to the patella so we have a muscle to
bone interaction and then over here we
actually can see a number of other
ligaments right most of us are familiar
with a lot of these especially fat a
sports injury before where we
actually see how the knee joint is held
together with bone-on-bone interactions
with ligaments so you'll learn more and
more about that stuff later on just two
examples that I think really illustrate
what we're talking about okay on to the
next one so it's hard to talk about
movement muscles bones interacting with
each other without addressing the
nervous system so the next one we're
going to talk about is kind of the
neuromuscular systems we have the
skeletal muscle system which is like
muscle and bone interaction now we're
going to just touch on excuse me the
neuromuscular system which is how nerves
and muscles interact right so in order
for us to generate human movement we
have to have pulling or activating of
muscles on bones
but in order for that muscle to actually
contract and generate tension and force
it has to be electrically stimulated
first by a nerve and the word we use for
that is innervation so it has to be
innervated by a nerve meaning has to be
electrically stimulated in order to
actually contract so the neuromuscular
system is generally comprised of
skeletal muscle which we've already
talked about motor neurons and the
neuromuscular Junction in which they
interact so the neuromuscular system
provides all the stimulation that we
need for both voluntary movement which
is like when we want to actually move
around and do exercise and pick things
up and chug a beer all that stuff but as
well as involuntary movement which could
be like reflex responses where you touch
something you know crap that burn my
hand right same thing it doesn't just
happen magically we still need that
neuromuscular system to operate it just
may operate on different levels
depending on what thing what task or
what situation is going on so let's go
on to the next one so here we have a
really really nice diagram of an alpha
motor neuron and it's innervating
multiple muscle fibers here so a motor
unit is the term that we typically use
in a motor unit is a single alpha motor
neuron and all of the fibers that it
potentially intervenes now one thing
that's really cool is when you get into
the neuromuscular stuff is an alpha
motor neuron might actually innervate
hundreds of individual muscle fibers so
we're talking about a huge huge amount
of branching out right it's not just
innovating necessarily one muscle fight
but we're talking about hundreds of
muscle fibers at a given time right so
the alpha motor neuron can communicates
with the muscle at the neuromuscular
Junction so again that alpha motor
neuron is going to be specific to
whatever fiber types that it wants to
stimulate and it's gonna stimulate a
whole bunch and one of the cool training
adaptations that we can see and over the
long term is actually continued
branching of that alpha motor neuron
innovating more muscle fibers or
different regions within the muscle
pretty cool stuff so let's take a look a
little bit more closely at what we got
over here the next slide and I know this
one's a doozy because it actually
contains not only the neuromuscular
Junction that we're talking about here
but it also gets into muscle contraction
here we can see another really nice
figure that I like we can see that
neuromuscular Junction on the top left
we have the motor neuron and this is
something we already talked about a
little bit when we talked about nerves
before we see there's that synaptic
cleft
there's acetylcholine receptors at the
surface of the muscle cell we can see
the storage vesicle that's about to dump
acetylcholine across that membrane and
that will allow that electrical activity
to pass from the nerve to the muscle so
what we see then is once we actually see
the acetylcholine splashing across that
neuromuscular junction between the motor
neuron and the muscle fiber then we can
see some really crazy things start to
happen in the muscle itself and this is
something you learn more about later on
in exercise physiology now that
stimulation by the alpha motor neuron
actually results in the release of
calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum
where it was stored in the muscle and
that starts spilling out across the cell
well that calcium actually allows some
of the active binding sites for things
like actin myosin and the troponin and
tropomyosin complex that allows for the
binding sites to actually be opened up
and we can actually see the powerstroke
of muscle contraction occurring so kind
of a huge sequence of events when we
really think about it and I think it's
really neat right all that starts
usually up top here to make monetary
movement make its way from the brain to
the spinal cord into the peripheral
nervous system and eventually results in
human movement so it's kind of hard to
not mention or give an honorable nod to
the neuromuscular system if we're
talking about movement bones muscles
things like that so let's go on to the
next one now we know that both voluntary
and involuntary movement are coordinated
through both the central nervous system
and the peripheral nervous system so we
just want to be clear what we're talking
about with those things the central
nervous system is generally defined as
the brain and the spinal cord right so
if everyone you've ever hear anyone say
that they have like a we
central nervous system deficiency you
can give that likes tank I like mmm is
your brain working okay your spinal cord
working okay and probably you don't have
a problem right so that's generally what
we're talking about we're talking about
the central nervous system now a couple
cool things that are worth noting about
the central nervous system they control
a lot of things and you can you can look
at you can find an a me book biology
book psychology book and look up all
different parts of the brain and spinal
cord right but for our purposes a couple
things that are noteworthy they control
our sympathetic state which is our
stress state so when we have fight
flight freeze exercise and do stress
things like that this is going to be
primarily controlled through the central
nervous system so when we actually are
entering a stressed state for any given
reason that will be controlled by the
central nervous system we also know that
I can on the polar opposite end when we
move into relaxation kind of anab ilysm
type states this is controlled by the
parasympathetic nervous system again
excuse me controller parasympathetic
state controlled by the central nervous
system here right so when we need to
actually relax unwind or start
triggering a Nabal ism again all control
at the central level pretty pretty neat
and you'll learn more and more about
that as we get into exercise physiology
but again sympathetic stress
parasympathetic relaxation which is kind
of opposite right yeah I usually think
of like sympathetic as sympathy and like
that makes me think of relaxation for or
like or niceness right it's kind of the
opposite of what you would think so
sympathetic is actually not sympathetic
it's it's a stress right so it's kind of
a weird thing that's the way I remember
it probably not be helpful but that's
just how I remember those two things and
then the peripheral nervous system is
essentially all of the nervous tissue
that is not the brain and spinal cord
that connects the brain and spinal cord
to the rest of the body right so
essentially anything that is connecting
from the nervous excuse-me from the
central nervous system to the periphery
right the arms legs hips everything else
right so basically anything that's a
nervous structure that's not acting
directly on or from the brain of spinal
cord room right so this operates on a
massive massive massive massive level
but a couple things that are noteworthy
for our discussion are a ferrant nerves
which are nerves that pick up on things
their sensory nerves right they can be
heat it can be stretched tension
pressure pain all sorts of different
things like that
and that's going to relay a signal back
through the periphery and back towards
the central nervous system that says hey
I've picked up on a change
sometimes that change is not a big deal
right sometimes it is a big deal like if
you step on a nail or you touch
something that's really hot and you go
oh crap right some of those responses
are picked up by a ferret nerves and
then sometimes they don't even actually
go up to the brain sometimes they're
actually regulated at the spinal cord
level which is really neat right so
sometimes like when you do something
that hurts or is really hot door you
like I said step on a nail or something
you don't even have to actually have
that signal go up to the brain it just
stays in the spinal cord and you get a
reaction right well where does that
reaction come from well those are
efferent nerves right AFET nerves
basically control action or response
type actions to RA Ference signals so a
ferret sensory efferent like effect
response action like doing stuff
movement actually causes something to
happen as a result of the initial
stimulus so that's kind of the way that
I can remember now this is like a very
very quick dirty version of
neuromuscular factors right but if
you're familiar with these terms going
forward I think you'll be in good shape
all right let's move on to the last one
that we're going to talk about today the
digestive system most of you are very
familiar with the digestive system so
we're not going to get too crazy on this
one but for those of you who are not our
digestive system essentially is used to
extract biomolecules from foodstuffs and
kind of assimilate them like Borg into
our body while at the same time removing
waste products right so we want to take
in food use that food for energy or for
structure or for energy production right
I think I said energy twice that's fine
and then we're actually going to take
any of the byproducts from those
reactions and excrete them out right so
the digestive system generally includes
and this is the short list you can
actually have a much more expansive but
for our purposes this is the list that
we work and with the mouth the esophagus
the stomach and the small and large
intestine so let's just go through this
real quick nothing too crazy right we
know that digestion generally starts
occurring in the mouth with the teeth
and the saliva where we start grinding
up food breaking it down using the
enzymes and the saliva to help start
breaking it down on a large scale
eventually we'll start pushing that food
down through the esophagus using
peristalsis which is kind of the
wave-like contraction down
tube style Oregon right like smooth
muscle so we see kind of like the bolus
of food entering and it gets kind of
pushed like a wave all the way down and
call it peristalsis
so once we've chewed it up right we push
it down through the esophagus and then
the stomach actually does a very similar
idea of peristalsis starts churning up
that food it has digestive enzymes and
hydrochloric acid we're now we've kind
of had a macro breakdown and now we're
starting kind of our micro breakdown of
the food where we had big food we turn
it in a little food and now we're taking
that little food and turning it's like
molecular food at that point right so
eventually roughly around two hours
later we start emptying the stomach and
we release that bolus of now pasty food
type substance into the small intestine
the small intestine is kind of where the
majority of the work takes place so the
small intestine generally absorbs
proteins carbs fats vitamins
micronutrients things like that any
remaining material will make its way
into the large intestine which primarily
observed excuse me absorbs water once
all the usable materials have been
extracted out any solid waste is then
moved through the process of defecation
which is pooping you like it
poop made its way onto this one very
very nice so that's kind of the quick
overview of some of the major systems
that you guys should be familiar with I
hopefully you guys aren't rolling your
eyes too much but I know a lot of people
haven't taken Anatomy biology even
things like some physics classes
probably since high school so this is
really just meant for you guys to be
familiar with some of these terms and
not be totally scared if somebody starts
dropping knowledge bombs you know I have
no idea what that word meant or what
these terms are just meant to get you up
to speed
hopefully you guys found this little
review course helpful I had fun putting
it together and I hope you enjoy all the
really cool and awesome things that are
coming up at rp+ and rpu this is again
dr. James Hoffman signing off for now
and I hope to see you guys in a later
more challenging course
you