turns out lying about these things not
such a good idea oh guys he's coming to
grips with the fact that he lied he's
apologizing and is's going to do a clean
slate let me tell you guys something
about well borderline sociopaths like
liver King they have no problem lying
after they've lied and been exposed they
do the same kind of apology you'd expect
from any decent person and then they go
on to do the same general category of
lying there is no limit to that it's
like a cheat mode in a shooter video
game where you just don't run out of am
as a family this brought us closer
together and bonded Scott look at her
face do you see her eyes kind of move
side to side a little bit there she
needs help 19 years with my queen we
celebrated this year dude her eyes bro
holy this is intense I wasn't ready
for this kind of blink twice I love
you my
queen holy forced