[Laughter]
what's going on guys today stephanie is
going back to Tampa
we're here to Train glutes and what I'll
do is I'll overlay the clips like I
usually do with the informative
voiceover gonna find parking first it's
proving oh no you won't pick it up
[Music]
this is what your butt looks like your
actual butt looks something more like
this
but this is what an illustrated version
of your butt looks like so the glutes
are composed of three main muscles the
glute max Emes the smaller glute medius
and the smaller still glute minimus
well the glute medius is an important
stabilizer of the hip joint and is a
strong hip abductor I'll be focusing
primarily on the glute Maximus since
it's the largest and the most
superficial or close to the surface the
glutes have a bunch of different origins
including the pelvis sacrum coccyx and
some fashio around the lumbar spine
they insert on the upper femur and IT
band and because the glutes have so many
different attachment points they can
perform a lot of different functions
with the main ones being hip extension
hip external rotation hip transverse
abduction and posterior pelvic tilt to
move over to and because the glutes can
do so much different stuff I think it's
important to train them with a variety
of different movements to maximally
stimulate them for growth so this is an
example of what a good glute workout
would look like you'd start with some
kind of free activation movement and I
think this is a good idea for any muscle
you're trying to focus on but
particularly important for the glutes
because in my experience people can
oftentimes have a difficult time finding
the mind muscle connection with them
using a circular band can be a good way
to open up the hips and get the glutes
firing through active hip abduction
during a few light or bodyweight squats
doing a couple lightweight high rep sets
on the abduction machine can work for
this purpose as well it may be my power
lifter bias coming through but I think
that squats are a staple to be included
in any program if you can safely perform
them but that said there are a few
reasons why I believe the squats are
actually overrated as a glute builder
the first is biomechanical
or elet al into
and one showed that the glutes fire the
hardest when they're in or near full hip
extension and squats load the glutes
largely when they're not near full hip
extension keep this in mind for later a
ton of studies have shown the squat to
be way better at activating the quads
and the glutes in a study by Contreras
at how published in 2015 showed that the
hip thrust resulted in more glute
activation than the squat and while
we're on the topic I'll quickly comment
on squat depth contrary to popular
belief deep squats actually don't lead
to increased glute activation a 2002
study by Kat Rossano ita√∫ did in fact
show this to be the case but there was a
methodological flaw they didn't change
the weight on the bar across the varying
squat depths so of course using the
exact same weight for an ass to grass
squat will yield more glute activation
than a half squat but that's only
because it's harder to go all the way
down you simply aren't able to move as
much weight when you go twice as deep
but when you account for differences in
strength between the varying squat
depths by assigning a relative rather
than absolute load these differences go
away as shown by Contreras a towel in
their 2016 paper so with that in mind
there are three things that you can do
to make the squat more glute focused
point your toes out since external
rotation increases glute activation take
a wider stance as demonstrated by
palliate al in their 2009 study and
sitting back or keeping the shins more
vertical sort of like you would on a
smith machine squat which multiple
studies have shown to increase glute
activation remember from earlier that
the glutes fire the most when in or near
full hip extension since the hip thrust
transfers the most force to the glutes
when the glutes are near full hip
extension they make a lot of sense
biomechanically as a glute builder
they're also way better at activating
the glutes than squats are at least
according to that Contreras study a
common complaint about the hip thrusts
is the painful iron on bone contact of
the barbell and the pelvis I found that
some thick pads can be of comfort here
but performing them single legged in for
higher reps is a relatively easy
workaround when I do them this way I
just lay a plate on my lap and focus on
strict control in a strong glute squeeze
at the top of each rep you also get the
advantage of having to stabilize during
hip extension which I imagine my yield
more glute medius activity and perhaps
engage areas of the glutes that the
barbell variation may not I also find I
can get a better mind muscle connection
when I do these unilaterally
because the glutes also posterior Lee
tilt the pelvis I think you should try
to maintain a posterior pelvic tilt
throughout the entire range of motion
glute activation can be maximized in the
walking lunge by doing a few things
first doing forward walking lunges
instead of rivers taking larger or
longer strides minimizing the
contribution of your back leg by driving
your front heel into the floor
while a lot of people think of this
movement as a lower back exercise and it
can be it's also a very effective glute
builder there are a few things that you
can do to make it more glute focused
slightly bend your knees slightly flare
your feet out slightly round your lower
back and squeeze your glutes hard at the
top of each rep and finally I like to
finish where I start which is with hip
abduction and I like to include this as
more of a so-called burnout exercise at
the end of a session to assist with any
extra little bit of metabolic stress
these can also be done for hi say 20 or
30 rep sets on the abduction machine
with your butt elevated or using a cable
or using a plate as Stephanie's doing
here
so that's it for the glute workout guys
please smash the thumbs up button if you
liked the informative voiceover or the
thumbs down button if you didn't
everyone I just wanted to quickly say
thank you so much for watching the video
I really appreciate all of your guys
support on the last video I surprised
that that video was as well received as
it was for just a travel vlog given that
you guys seem to like that one I will be
posting another one so my next video
will cover my trip to the LA fit Expo
what I'm trying to do here with this
channel is produce the highest quality
most informative content that I possibly
can if you guys are liking what you're
seeing please feel free to share the
video that's always very much
appreciated also we're closing in on a
hundred thousand subscribers which is
just crazy for me to think about so if
you guys would like to help me reach
that goal if you have
subscribe yet you can do so by clicking
this button right here and you'll
subscribe to the channel even just
simply liking the video is a great way
to support me so if you haven't done
that please go down and hit the thumbs
up button out really appreciate it um
and that's it for this one guys I'll see
you in the next video