and Jesse James looks good wow and geez
look at that fucking arm dude somebody
drug test Jesse James West hey Greg to
set
okay thanks Greg
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I'm the co-creator of the
RPI portrait app and a professor of
exercise and sports science at Lehman
College in the Bronx in New York City
in New York state in the United States
in North America in the Western
Hemisphere on planet Earth
in the solar system in the Orion arm of
the Milky Way galaxy and
what cluster
galaxies were in but no doubt I'll get
to that in the next video alright we are
here to review the training sensation
that is Mr Jesse James West and there
are only two types of people that are
allowed to have three names serial
killers ooh
or Outlaws in the west Like Jesse James
West which is isn't just Scott's video
guys and Jesse James like an old outlaw
except this Jesse James doesn't really
shoot guns he just shoots workouts and
handsomeness
did I say that out loud let's say more
crazy things out loud hit it this is
Hani rambot 22-time Olympia winning
coach known for coaching athletes such
as sebum Jay Cutler Phil Heath and so
many more Legends he touches the guys a
lot which I'm a big fan of today he'll
be putting me through his fst-7 workout
let's go I will say Jesse James has an
unbelievable amount of presence energy
Honey's like Jesus Christ man he's like
I love him someone showed up to work
what are you normally doing so I'm
normally doing a press two side raises
and like two rears something like that
okay okay so we're training shoulders
cool trying to focus my side delves
definitely my most weak side delts most
weak most people when they want the
Aesthetics of bigger shoulders are
looking for bigger side don'ts bigger
rear delts are quite easy to train just
with full range of motion pulling
movements that you train for your back
bigger front delts almost entirely
handled by pushing work for like chest
shoulders triceps really side delts I
maintain are maybe 80 or even 100
percent of what you should be training
when you're training for adults but
we'll see this uh what this workout has
in store
uh the techniques generally very good I
would love to see Jesse go considerably
lower touching the inside of the
dumbbell to the outside of his shoulder
at the bottom and holding for one second
that deep painful stretch has been shown
scientifically and practically to result
in more muscle growth so that would be
really really cool other than that it
looks like quite a good shoulder press
um
yeah
slow it down a little bit so honey said
something very important slow it down a
little bit it's good to slow down that
eccentric The Descent under control it
causes a lot more muscle growth stimulus
and because you have to slow it down you
can't use weights that are as heavy you
got to go lighter it's even safer that
way
good job so what we want to do now catch
your breath okay if you notice you're
speaking really really quickly your
heart rate's really high he said if you
notice you're speaking really really
quickly I think Jesse James is just
excited to be around Mr honey Rambo
makes sense the guy turned almost
everyone he's ever met Pro and then also
get a sip of water this is really good
stuff you want to really break between
sets because you want maximum energy you
put into a high quality Ultra effective
set you don't want to go too fast in the
gym if you're doing it for regular
workout just normal Fitness cool but if
you want to build some muscle which is
what honey rabbit specializes in then
you're definitely going to want to take
some breaks between sets breathing back
to normal feel strong again and then go
allow yourself to walk around a little
bit for a few seconds get your heart
rate down I'm just so excited man but
gotta remain chill now let's go ahead
and do a standing lateral raise show me
what you normally do just let me see
your form okay well that's really good
that technique is quite good
that's a slightly different variation
but the nice thing about it is you're
not resting here that's one thing you do
not want to do you don't want to rest
here and he's doing a great job not
doing that okay you can totally rest at
the bottom
if you rest at the bottom that rest buys
you more repetitions
if you don't rest at the bottom you can
do fewer repetitions but you accomplish
roughly the same amount of muscle growth
stimulus so not resting versus resting
is really just personal preference you
can even combine them you can do as many
reps as you can not resting then come
down rest for a second and then do a few
more reps so not really any Dogma here
resting at the bottom is totally fine
I'm all about keeping the tension on the
muscle but the tension is what you sum
up over the multiple reps if you put in
tension rest put in tension rest your
muscles count the tension that you've
put in all to the same piggy banks you
don't have to keep the constant tension
all on at the same time you can pulse it
in and that's totally fine keep going
awesome one more one more one more I'm
not entirely sure what the purpose is of
touching someone while they're training
unless you're bringing attention to
various cues like you could touch their
side out while they're training it I'm
inclined to believe there may be some
additional mind muscle connection
benefit I'll be radically small this
like sort of gripping around the waist
Titanic bullshit they got going on over
here is it's hot and all and I'm all
here for it but it might not be very
very effective maybe he's trying to help
him out a little bit but then again like
your UPS are your reps man in order to
really connect with your body you got to
do this shit yourself I'm a pretty firm
believer of that I'm just I guess not
sold on the benefits of touching someone
uh without a compelling reason during
the workout although if it's Jesse James
West that's working out with me I'm
touching him as much as I possibly can
also with my hands
hey guys if you want more uncut raw
unedited too hot to share on YouTube
version of this then consider joining
our membership for this Channel and you
get all this crazy stuff plus a lot more
educational content every single week
see you there you see me do the flex
sets right yes so what we're doing is
we're creating more time under tension
by being able to flex in between sets
now go into a most muscular crab
like that wider wider get your lats out
there you go and squeeze and get your
hands a little closer to your body
there you go keep that tension on there
we're gonna hold that for another 10
seconds so that definitely puts some
tension on the side delves the problem
is he's flexing his biceps triceps
forearms chest back ABS everything
that's a lot of fatigue for something
that is doing what exactly to the delts
so by flexing like that your whole body
before you do another set you're
reducing how strong you're going to be
for that set you're reducing how many
reps you're going to be able to get and
the Reps you get for that next set
they're very specifically hypertrophic
muscle growth promoting to the side
doubts themselves so you're kind of
doing a little bit of whole body stuff
also isometrically isometric
contractions don't cause reliably as
much muscle growth as uh likely
eccentric contractions do or concentric
the ones that you're moving actual
weight so I would say this is like okay
thing to do but probably makes you a
little bit too tired than optimal for
your next sets without as much of a
trade-off as you'd like to see in the
beneficial Direction
nine eight seven five four good job
okay stand up straight stand up straight
catch your breath
Jesse James is very impressive looking
shoulders that was the craziest thing
I've ever done Jesse it's almost
certainly not the craziest thing you've
ever done I've seen your other videos
you've talked to random girls and picked
them up out of the street and by pick up
I don't mean physically lift I mean
emotionally lift and that to me is a lot
crazier than uh flexing in a gym call me
crazy your fsc7 Flex sets Okay FST seven
Flex sets the first time ever doing it
what exactly is fst-7 training that
created this fsc7 training style which
increases the intensity with or without
me there obviously it's going to be a
little more intense because I'm actually
here but it's going to help with more of
that three-dimensional look more of the
three-dimensional look
huh I thought that was just growing
muscles but what do I know I'm just a
professor of exercise and Sports Science
[Music]
because we're doing hyper volume
training with high intensity training
that's what FSD 7 is
okay every kind of training has a volume
and an intensity I don't know if it's
completely accurate to say there is such
a thing as volume training or such a
thing as intensity training so you can
have training that is of a lower volume
but higher relative effort further
Beyond failure or to failure and you can
have training that has more volume more
number of sets but each set is
significantly sub-maximal such that
you're stopping three or four reps shy
failure So to that effect you could have
a more volume biased or relative effort
which is the technical term for
intensity bias training
that all being said the right answer is
to give the lifter for that session the
correct ish number of sets to do with a
correct relative effort and then every
workout needs to get a little bit harder
maybe the relative effort climbs every
single week maybe the number of sets
stays roughly the same or even increases
if that person is recovering say seven
is kind of an arbitrary number to give
someone I would like someone to start
with fsd4 and then work their way up
over a period of two months to fsd8 that
would be I think really really good but
generally the fsd7 system isn't awful it
has a lot of work and if you are using
good technique and recovering
appropriately it can definitely work to
help you put on muscle so you're gonna
keep your chest up in here we're working
on just right here focusing right in the
front again I'm not entirely sure what
the point is of touching someone maybe
I'm just weird about that this is a
front raise it's decent unfortunately
it's a front raise that biases the
shortened position of the delt which is
not the most muscle growth promoting if
you actually turned around completely in
that bench and I'm this is a totally
fine variant but if you're looking for a
way to enhance this at home turn around
in the bench and then do the same
exercise but start with your arms way
below you would behind you the Big
Stretch on the front delt is really what
grows just come up until you're parallel
to the ground and come back down it'll
almost certainly wrap for up the at
least mildly Superior to this version
again this is a totally fine version
just another idea for you guys to try at
home
oh my God good so I don't think you
normally do those oh I I that's the
first time I've literally ever done
those okay I don't think you do front
raises at all I don't do fundraisers
okay so you need to start doing them
yeah you need to start doing them I
would say the front raise done properly
if you take your pinkies and turn them
to the sky and you do a front raise like
that it can actually significantly
recruit your side belts which is good
front raises with your thumbs up are
almost exclusively the front delts have
you ever seen anyone's physique be
limited by their front delts everyone
who trains their chest shortened and
triceps in any capacity that's
challenging also has to train their
front delts every pushing movement
trains front delts and I would say front
delts basically get trained enough so
that front raises unless you're doing
them for side belts in their front a
little bit out to the side with the
pinkies up those are cool every other
kind of front raise is probably
um you could use your time better
training your side delts more you heard
the man don't be skipping the front
delts okay skip the front delts everyone
was lying to you not everyone alright
guys so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna do
bent over lateral raises we're gonna do
pinkies up so we can be able to create a
better focus on the rear delts so
there's two major techniques ones with
Palms down ones with think he's up we're
gonna do them both ways so you can be
able to see the differences because
they're just slightly different Nuance
to that exercise oh curious
that definitely is an effective exercise
the pinkies up means that your fibers
turn into the direction of the movement
and it's great stimulus for adults very
good it also hit a lot of traps in upper
back which is uh totally fine again I'm
not a big fan of rear adult training
because I think if you're doing full
range of motion pull-ups pull Downs rows
of all kinds your rear delts are going
to be very very very sufficiently
trained and then side delts are probably
the ROI best thing to train after that
oh good job your chest up keep your
chest up
good squeeze those shoulders a bit there
you go oh we're still doing the
squeezing thing I was like chest Up For
What the set is over
[Music]
what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever made
get yours now
it's low give me five seconds all the
way down five
four
three two good job slow eccentrics are
great I'd like to see him push his chest
up a little bit more and to finish the
rep behind his body to stretch that
bicep at the bottom a little bit better
but this is a very good and geez look at
that fucking arm dude somebody drug test
Jesse James West hey Greg to set Mike
what's going on man can you do a video
of Jesse James West is on drugs tonight
okay thanks Greg
so we're doing some biceps now on this
one we're basically doing a hammer using
the Rope I always call that the double
dildo curl yeah buddy
shall I start the Ronnie Coleman
Impressions now or later we'll save it
for later
wow here we go this is eight time Mr
Olympia Ronnie Coleman oh my God he wore
the same pants Jesse James has a lot of
energy if I was Ronnie I'd be like uh
what the what the hell you doing wearing
my pants
that's not cool at all motherfucker are
you mocking me or something wait wait
wait baby oh it's real light Ron hell
yeah what's it saying not good but to do
it none two about to do it ain't nothing
but a peanut I can do it all folks all
day long oh I'm just trying to stay away
from now I'm just gonna shut the fuck up
all right nothing to do it but to do it
yeah buddy
hey 225
so Jesse James
his technique on the bench press was
quite good I would like to see him
control the Centric a little bit more
his Russian uh The Eccentric but
otherwise very good for range of motion
I will categorically never criticize
Ronnie Coleman's technique because there
are men and then there are gods and
that's all I'll say about that get it
time to go in
I'ma whoop your ass if you don't do this
for at least 57 000 reps
good technique again a little too quick
on the way down too quick of a reversal
at the bottom and for some reason people
leave like that half inch or an inch at
the top that inch that bottom inch let
me tell you is the most growth promoting
part of the movement I would say slow
and control pause and then Ascend but uh
definitely like this is like an a lift
uh technique wise I'd love to see an A
plus
I'm not gonna lie this is this is his
workout is very intense right now oh
not ideal for five days out and it feels
really good to train I love training
with you Ron yeah buddy he literally
just gave a yeah buddy while on his
phone hold up hold up uh oh yeah yeah
buddy uh that's right goddamn white
motherfuckers in my dream what the hell
going on out here am I gonna get
canceled for that impression Maybe
it's all love Mr Ronnie back in the day
I like how Jason year was like yeah he
didn't know who the fuck I am what's
going on would you focus more on barbell
or dumbbell oh he's like yeah can you
get the fuck out of my face for a second
God damn who the fuck are you he's like
oh we're filming an interview like oh
yeah that's right
both what a fucking sweet answer oh I
had one day it was all barbell and one
day it was all done there I never use
cables on machines
I'm going to hell
damn Jesse James looks good
wow I guess he's five days out of a show
or something
yeah natural natural oh natural
bodybuilding show impressive
men's physique and bodybuilding wow
thanks Scott the video guy you stalker
anime characters are known for wearing
weighted clothes to gain superhuman
strength and today I'm joined by lean
beef patty oh my God an old friend of
the channel I guess though she like most
of her fans uh doesn't know that we
exist hello darkness my old friend
to see what it's like to wear them for
the next 24 hours oh bad fourth
competition we got the Rope climb let's
see who's stronger
Houston we have a major problem no I
can't get up yo rope climbing looks like
you're like yeah I could do this it's
fucking hard and there's this weird
technique you have to do with your legs
and all this other bullshit
I would get negative two reps on that
rope there we go cross your legs I need
help good job I like how Jesse James
figured it out and then he was like wait
a minute okay I figured it out but it's
still too hard no no you're up there you
got to do it yourself this is one of the
hardest things I've literally ever done
meet me in real life Jesse James and
I'll put you through a hard thing you've
never done but it'll be done with you
not just to you
huh
time you train with a girl especially a
fit girl your number one priority should
be to embarrass her I'm better at this
than you are Neil and when she realizes
she is physically inferior she's going
to develop an emotion called infatuation
with you that's how pickup Works short
lesson you're welcome we're gonna see
who could do 100 sit-ups the fastest go
that I would quit at like three
I'm just kidding I can't do three
sit-ups one
oh shit lean beef Patty's all on this
motherfucker this is way more difficult
than I thought it was gonna be I
underestimated this dude 100 actual
sit-ups is fucking tough which brings me
to thought people who say I drew 100
sit-ups every five hours shut the fuck
up no you don't you do those little
bullshit pulse crunches you fucking liar
I got like five more
you're not even struggling I'm literally
sweating damn dude leave me Pat is just
showing off at this point doing a little
Rocky Balboa action too easy easy day
for lean beef no it's fine it's fine
I'll just take the L
Max pull-ups in 60 seconds this is gonna
be really hard
I know this is just all for fun folks
but with that in mind I'm going to judge
the living out of their pull-up
technique gold Patty got one three wow
oh boy that's a strong woman
techniques off
as expected fatality
take your time take your time seven oh
that was okay the the 70 counted when
she just started lifting up I don't
think she got anywhere I don't know how
you kind of pull up at the beginning of
a rep but very well okay come on go go
go up nine nine
is that 12. yeah Patty going for it her
celebrations really putting me down
right now yeah a lot of fun kids having
fun all right
I I wanted this I asked for this
[Laughter]
my body weight plus this on the bar yes
pretty much yeah and we're gonna see who
did the most PR it is not easy and I am
actually terrified of getting hurt oh
why is it so
there you go
all right so lean beef patty plus a
hundred pounds
weighs 132 pounds so warm up oh we'll
just warm it up I'm being a dick early
I'm not gonna lie it's way harder five
ah wow six your feet look a little
uneven why are you trying to get in my
head Patty it's encouragement seven wow
do you guys also hate it when the video
guys don't give you an angle or time
frame in which to judge squat depth and
technique looking at it from the front
kind of skipping the bottom part a
little bit with the with the camera I
just can't tell if these are good high
quality reps I want to judge damn it but
I can't I need raw material for judging
thank you
that did not look sufficiently deep I
would count that as a zero
Squad is that still a warm-up
come on ready oh
that is a half Squad
I'm a cock sucker I know all right
so
Jesse James on the lifting
8.5 out of 10. generally very good range
of motion very good control I'd love to
see a little bit of a Slowdown on The
Eccentric and a little bit of a pause at
the bottom for Stuff
um we won't talk about the squat and
pull up stuff that was all just for laws
and uh on the personality and just being
an invigorated young man a 15 out of
14.5
am I a fitfluencer yet see you guys next
time
[Music]