higher frequency programs might not be
as beneficial in the real world as they
might seem from some of the resource
literature hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance
periodization why lower frequencies
might be better for growth than a
surface level analysis May indicate to
you what a fun video topic for all of us
muscle nerds let's talk about optimizing
training
frequency if you just look at the
research by itself as the nerd that you
are it looks like higher training
frequencies are superior for muscle
growth than lower training frequencies
on average a good example of this is
Greg Knuckles from Stronger by science
which I recommend him and stronger by
science um as Superior resources to
inform yourself especially if you're a
fucking
nerd uh Greg did an older review of the
literature on this is now a few years
old and it was a great review of
literature because he looked at actual
effect sizes difference between all the
different frequencies one time a week
two time a week three times four times
five and even I think some studies
included six time a week frequencies for
the same muscle we're talking about
training biceps once a week versus twice
versus dot dot dot six times biceps per
week and what Greg found was that the
more frequency you do on average the
more muscle you grow over the span of a
few months because that's how long most
of the studies are what he also found
was the difference between training once
a week and twice a week was really big
the difference between training twice a
week and three times a week was not so
big the difference between training
three times a week and four times a week
was very very small the difference
between five and six four and 5 Etc was
either undetectable or basically like I
we can't even confidently say there's a
difference here
anymore a lot of other reviews didn't
find such an ASM totic relationship they
found that generally 2x was Superior to
1x but anything 2x plus was roughly the
same but most those lit reviews did
volume equating which means that they
looked at training people twice a week
versus training them three times a week
for the same muscle but the amount of
total sets per week they did was the
same the problem is that really
undercuts the value of high frequency
training one of the values of high
frequency training is because you're
doing less each time you never
accumulate a crapload of fatigue From
Any Given session and thus you can do
more frequent sessions and the addition
of those frequent sessions together your
overall weekly volume that you can do is
bigger so for example if twice a week
training high quality great training you
can do 25 sets total you may be able to
do a high quality 30 sets total with
three times a week and with four times a
week you might be able to do 40 high
quality sets total then it's like or
even let's call it you know 38 or
something well 38 sets for four times a
week is a shitload more sets than 25
sets twice a week but if you say look if
we do the study both groups have to have
25 well then you're undercutting the
value of the high frequency group like
that's that's not really fair so I
thought Greg's review was really really
fair in the sense that it treated the
frequencies and the volumes organically
um ecologically soing look if you're
training for higher frequency it's
implied that you're going to be able to
put in more volume because that's really
how the real world works so in that case
high frequency in my estimation does
have a theoretical upside and an
empirical upside if properly studied to
lower frequency training in the
scientific
literature
but this logic is sound but some
compelling ideas May hem in the logic a
bit for the real world because we start
out with just scientific studies they
say this maybe we hem this in a little
bit to give you a bit more of a
constrained but more accurate view about
what really is likely to happen in the
real world and I can think of at least
six reasons why higher training
frequency may be a uh for Optimum result
may be a little bit lower than we think
just from this kind of evidence first D
loads have to be integrated in the real
world most training studies don't use D
loads because you're using participants
that are too weak being trained too
infrequently or just not trained for
long enough to even accumulate need an
amount of fatigue to require D loing but
the rest of us that live in the real
world and train on De in real world
every 48 weeks or so we're going to need
a D Lo here's the thing if you train
time three times a week really hard you
might need to De load once every four
weeks if you train hard twice a week you
might not accumulate as much fatigue
because your total volume is lower and
because you train fresher every time if
you train four versus two times a week
then actually your intensity is higher
like your load is higher you in a high
frequency condition both lift heavier in
every session and do more sessions and
there's more volume total over the week
that tends to crush you much more maybe
you'll need to Deo instead of every four
weeks with a high frequency condition
three times a week if you train two
times a week you might only need to De
load once every six weeks and then so
the total frequency of that entire Mesa
cycle isn't just the accumulation phase
which is 3x versus 2x it's the
accumulation plus D Lo and if you have
more D loads training with higher
frequency over the course of let's say a
year the number of of sessions you get
is actually smaller than you would think
with a higher frequency still higher
than the lower frequency but not by as
much because the de loading has to be
more frequent D loads count if you spend
a quarter of a year D loading then
versus another program where you spend a
third of the Year D loading if you go
two weeks up one week down because each
of the two weeks is 6X a week 6X a week
2x a week on the D loads the average
isn't that you train six times a week
it's much more now that you train like
four times a week or something but if
you train four times a week your D loads
need to be interspersed much greater and
so you still have higher frequencies
with higher frequency but not as much
Point number two untrained subjects are
the vast majority of the people being
trained here in these studies and
studied in these studies they count for
Less they just don't count for as much
inferential power to the rest of us who
well train and it's probably not our
first day of training most of the
research is on looking at people to
train between zero and three years total
two to three years is actually
considered train trained in in most of
the literature it's almost a formal
definition and uh G whiz you know that's
trained but not so well trained a lot of
us have watching this Channel right now
have been training for three four five
and and more years many of us the folks
that are in these studies uh they can
take a ton of stimulus without summing
up a bunch of fatigue because they just
don't even know how to drive a hard
stimulus they don't even know how to
push themselves very hard and they're
also not very muscular so they don't
have a lot of muscle to recover so they
can't accumulate a lot of fatigue they
can imagine that their hamstrings are
roughly the size of your forearms
something like that how what is it going
to take to overtrain your forearms Jesus
Christ six days a week two days for 18
months straight maybe you'll overtrain
them maybe not even so when you look at
someone who's been training for 16 weeks
on a high frequency program and their
hamstrings have made amazing gains like
yeah but if I tried this my hamstrings
would break into pieces within two weeks
because I'm so big and so strong
compared to these people that I can't
recover at the speed that they're doing
in addition to that cuz they're fucking
noobs they have fresh joints right and
your joints are not fresh they're a
little beat up and also they're so weak
that they can't even beat up their own
joints be like well wouldn't your joints
start to fall apart after 18 weeks of
squatting five times a week well theirs
won't because they're they're squatting
barely anything and their joints are
fresh as shit you have had three knee
surgeries and you're squatting fucking
200 kilos or some shit for reps you're
just not going to be able to last like
they
do for more experienced subjects for
more experienced trainees very high
frequencies might not be nearly as
sustainable as they are for the typical
person in a training study so that's
definitely something to watch out for
number three short-run programs are not
the same things as years of training and
extrapolating from one to the other is a
potentially not good idea we can't
simply conclude that high frequency is
categorically better almost everyone
that I've ever seen do squat every day
has incredible results in the first
several months makes sense idea in sport
Science is called concentrated loading
really focus on something pour a ton of
resource in it it climbs up fast but
then the fatigue catches up and then it
starts to Peter off I know almost no one
who got really jacked and really strong
and his maintaining it and successfully
still adding with like a squad everyday
program usually first three to six
months it works great you just don't
hear about them after that and they're
like yeah in knes got fucked up hips
dried up I don't know what happened but
I'm trying to squat again but every time
I do it hurts dope amazing there's a
couple people on YouTube with YouTube
accounts don't get a lot of followers
some and uh they're like Squad every day
day number 696 working around a knee
injury and you're like why why are you
doing this almost no one who's gotten to
be the best squatter or no one who's
ever had the biggest legs in the
conversation his squatter every day is
it just like a hobby you're doing is it
just fun look it has distinct upsides
but probably not for
forever the analogy here is that a jet
like a fighter jet flies way faster with
its afterburners on with the the red
stuff's coming out than it does with
just cruising speed but you can't keep
them on all the time you'll burn your
engines out and you'll run out of fuel
you don't don't like you know take off
from fucking you know Washington DC and
fly to you know Miami Florida only on
afterburners just might not be a
realistic option so just the same way
you're not like high frequency is great
yes for three months at a time whatever
let's do it all the time like you might
burn out people do it all the time at
the very least just be cautious and
extrapolating especially when most
successful very jacked people don't seem
to go ultra high in frequency and maybe
it's the Changing of the Guard maybe
they're wrong maybe we'll all be
training with higher frequencies in the
future but maybe that's not true maybe
you're wrong about that and so at least
understand that scientifically we can
confidently say look for short periods
of time a Mesa cycle maybe two maybe
three one two three four months at a
time higher frequencies almost certainly
give you better results for muscle
growth but we shouldn't be so confident
saying and thus I train high frequency
all the time you might not want to do
that you might want to go through phases
of higher and lower frequency I'll get
to that in a bit next number four
anabolic resistance is a real thing and
it's been research confirmed at this
point especially for more advanced
people so if you train five times a week
versus two times a week for the same
muscle each session in the second week
of the 5x is giving you very very small
amount of muscle growth but each session
in week two of the 2x a week training
gives you a substantial amount of muscle
growth so yes higher frequencies might
might be better because you get to train
five times but training five times a
week doesn't mean that you get the same
amount of anabolic drive from each 5x
session as you do from each 2x session
because if you train one day and you
train again the next day for the same
muscle the amount of anabolism radically
tapers off still there and over the
whole week it still sums up to a higher
total amount of muscle growth but if you
train two times a week yeah you don't
you grow plenty of muscle in the first
session but you you miss out on Tuesday
miss out on Wednesday you're not
spurring any more new growth you're just
collecting the old growth and then when
you train Thursday again if you compare
the two Thursdays for the 5x Thursday
and the 2x Thursday 5x Thursday you get
a little bit of muscle growth because
your body's like fucking Christ been at
this for four fucking days what the hell
am I supposed to do with this shit but
if you train Thursday in the 2x it's the
first time you've trained in three days
your body's like fuck yeah muscle growth
and it drives it like crazy so if you
compare 5x to 2x 5x in a week grows this
much muscle 2x in a week grows this much
it's not this much you would think two
is like well two fifths of five no it's
more like four fifths as far as muscle
growth is concerned so if you really
want to grow some muscle and it's
absolutely number one priority for you
to bring up your bicep fuck yeah five
times a week four times whatever you
need to do but if you're regularly
training the rest of your body you're
getting pretty decent gains and fatigue
is in the mix two times a week comes so
close to five times a week much more
than you would expect precisely because
that anabolic resistance resets itself
much more for two times a week versus
five times a week it resets on the
weekends but then you're back to Growing
plenty muscle on Monday but the muscle
growth stimulus on Tuesday Wednesday
Thursday Friday Etc it's just
like not much left right you're you're
kind of squeezing the juice out of
everything completely and then you just
might as well get a new thing of juice
but no you're squeezing it out still God
damn it muscle you're going to grow for
me I I just say so and it works you do
get the most squeeze but it's a lot of
effort for a very small outcome if it's
worth it to you amazing just don't
expect it to be double the outcome
you'll be in for a really shit surprise
because people will say high frequencies
are better rarely do you have a followup
on social media with like what was the
effect size for that like it was very
small like oh fuck so unless I'm really
prioritizing a muscle group maybe it's
just not worth it for me to go super
high
frequencies this by itself is a good
reason to suspect that higher
frequencies might be ideal for one to
two Messa Cycles at a time two to three
months at a time after which your
muscles are exhausted as the French
would say and uh they might have to wait
you know um I was involved in the
situation where I was like oh this is
like just a couple weeks ago I was like
um how many was it Scott I had been in
bed with eight Playboy
Playmates um guys I had to tell them
ladies I'm human and even though I'm
unbelievably well- endowed to the point
of questioning my Humanity I'm made of
Flesh and Blood and I had to say look
come back and in 3 days and we can do
this whole orgy thing all over again I
just can't have you hanging around the
apartment it's I live in a New York
skyrise 108th floor and kinobody say
what is your name kinobody I have
kinobody over the next day because as
much girl love as I like men exist and
boy are they beautiful KOB body comes
into clean up the mess so to speak he's
so good at cleaning he uses his whole
body you ever seen somebody use their
whole body to clean you
the hell is going on in this channel
folks why must I always bring this up
that's for you to answer in the comments
in any case two to three months go hard
high frequency squeeze the toothpaste
out of that shit and then two or three
months pick another muscle group to do
that too and leave that muscle group the
fuck alone to two time a week training
you'll still get great gains not the
best gains your body will refresh your
mind will refresh your joints will
refresh your anabolic resistance will
drop and then you could hit it again
later with that same kind of con cated
loading next to make an even bigger
point of this number five higher volumes
and higher loads give you a less
sustainable fatigue environment and
guess what higher frequency allows you
to do higher frequency by putting more
sessions in the week allows you to build
up higher total volumes for the week and
because you come in fresher each time
you can even have higher loads how the
fuck does this work let me explain to
you let's have an example you do five
sets of squats on Monday and then five
sets of leg press right after after on
Thursday you do five sets of squats and
then five sets of leg press got it with
me so far cool each time you do leg
presses Monday and Thursday you are
fatigued acutely from having done squats
so while your squat loading is super
great your leg press loading is not as
good I mean after you squat a bunch
you're not really fucking not a much gas
in the tank you can still have a great
workout with leg presses for those five
sets but not amazing now check this out
that's a two time a week program we take
the leg presses and we move them away
from squats from Monday to Tuesday and
from Thursday to Friday so now we go
Monday Thursday squats for five sets
Tuesday Friday leg press for 5 cents if
it's on a different day you've had some
you're definitely stronger a day later
for lifting then you are
like five minutes later after you've
completed your last five sets of squats
so now the load on your leg press like
literally how much if it's the same rep
range which why would we change that
sets a 10 to 15 nor after squats you'd
be using 315 on the leg press or so now
you're using
365 that extra 25 pounds on every rep of
every set of every session adds up so
higher frequency programs because they
allow you to come in fresher you don't
have to train after doing a whole bunch
of stuff you train fresh every time or
more fresh your overall volume we
already talked about is way higher or at
least the same usually you can do six or
seven sents of squat six or seven sets
of leg press and then the volume is
higher because of the
frequency and the load is heavier on
average cuz you're not as tired anymore
from the shit you used to do you're
spreading it out that is amazing for
driving hypertrophy duh more weight more
volume fucking gas me up Scotty the
problem is is that it turns
out again to no surprise whatsoever that
higher volumes per week and heavier
loads within those volumes Drive fatigue
much much more and the thing is is that
sometimes your muscles are totally fine
but in most cases your joints and
connective tissues have a fatigue
tolerance or an ability to heal from
fatigue that's slower than your muscles
so you might be like hey man my biceps
are ready to go o but my elbows I don't
know or my quads are ready to go but my
knees aren't having a lot of
fun this implication of higher frequency
empowering you to do more means you get
the upside of doing more but also the
downside you get the bigger stimul and
the more muscle growth but you also get
the gnarlier fatigue and that's both uh
joint and connective tissue fatigue and
systemic fatigue I mean fuck me four leg
workouts a week with eight fucking sets
each time versus two leg workouts with
two sets each time or sorry 10 sets each
time which one you think is going to
fuck you up more and that's not just
totally adding sets that's also
psychological I mean you finish Monday's
leg workout you're like oh I I generally
like to smoke a cigarette in the parking
lot after every workout I finish um It's
Made of $100 bills or whatever I don't
care the butler's give me the cigarettes
I I don't even ask for them anymore I
smoke a Siggy and I'm like oh man that
was awesome thank fucking God I don't
have to do that again till Thursday but
if you're smoking the sigy after eight
sets of fucking squats and you're like
oh what's tomorrow fucking god eight
sets of leg presses and I get one day
and then I fucking have to do the whole
thing over again holy shit
psychologically the shit catches up to
you and then all of a sudden you're not
giving your best effort and if you're
not giving your best effort why the fuck
are you doing the program it's a
contradiction in terms or or I'll say uh
giving your best effort is more uh more
of a primary concern than just going in
there and fucking doing the work
so this higher fatigue environment is a
problem and it means it's not a
sustainable coming back around to that
advice of do it for a few Mesa Cycles
until you really burn the fuck out and
then stop don't just assume higher
frequencies are better I better train
them all the time it's not designed
necessarily to be done all the time we
also know that not only do you keep all
the muscle you gain on lower frequencies
for sure but you also can still add
muscle just a little more slowly on
Lower frequency so you got to understand
that if you want your best longterm you
got to try hard rest try hard rest try
hard rest you can't just be like try
hard forever and then die well you will
die but you won't get jacked so just the
same way that's a thing in workouts you
don't work out 24 hours a day you work
out for a few and then you rest the rest
of the time that kind of time scale or
that kind of pattern of go hard and back
off expands to every time scale so
there'll be times of uh the week which
you go hard and then the weekends when
you go easy there'll be times of a messa
cycle where you go super hard and then
you Deo just the same way a training
block can be really hard with higher
frequencies two or three meeses in a row
and then you switch the pace and ease up
on those muscles so you can go hard on
something else that's absolutely a thing
and it works it
works lastly this is a big deal and it's
becoming more of a big deal and have
more videos in the future about why this
is a big
deal in the research
literature most studies that train
people and that assess training
frequency for example or anything else
they're training studies the programs
those people get are generally twice a
week or three times a week they come
into the lab and they do their sets of
leg extensions or leg curls and squats
or whatever the fuck else they're
doing in the vast majority of the cases
the subjects either do not train outside
of that context at all or do their own
training which is usually just not
training that fucking hard
then when we look at it and we see a
study on the quadriceps that was like
Hey 4X a week is better than 2x a week
you're like oh fuck I got to train my
legs four times every week hold on a
second what about systemic fatigue well
in the studies it doesn't fucking matter
because a lot of those people the
majority of them just show up for four
leg workouts a week and do nothing else
physical I mean on the one hand locally
it's tough for the quads to recover from
that but seems like they did in the
study dope guess it's not a local limit
it's not a quad limit
but also training three times a week
total it's just not that big of a pat on
the back and not much systemic fatigue
but your dumbass is reading the fucking
abstract or reading the title of that
study and not reading through the
methods and not thinking of the shit in
a nuanced way then you're like of course
I should be training my legs three times
a week uhhuh but you also train your
chest you train your biceps you train
your back your shoulders your everything
else that level of systemic fatigue sums
up to something fucking insane than if
they actually did a study where they ran
your program on all the subjects and
they did three times a week like
training it might be the reality that
hey yeah actually they did make it for
12 weeks and then you got to try it out
but more likely they'll try and realize
that after six weeks half the study
participants are already gone because
they're like I can't do this anymore and
the other half are just starting to get
weaker progressively over time big
fucking problem so we look at studies in
isolation but in the real world we have
to contextualize them into what we're
doing already and you guys out here like
watching this channel you're probably
training four to six days a week four or
five or six days a week and you're
probably training most of your muscles
if not the large majority you can't
simply say wait I'm going to go to high
frequency for everything hold on a sec
that's not what they did in the studies
then it could be that if you try it your
systemic fatigue is so insane that later
you realize you're like oh oh yeah it
turns out nobody can do this you could
find out that you can do it just have a
bit of reverence for the process and go
okay I'm going to try to increase my
frequency in just one muscle group the
rest I'm going to keep the same and I'm
going to see how it goes a few weeks
later and a few weeks later you might be
like this really works my quads are much
bigger now amazing or you might be like
holy shit this is unsustainable and if
you find that to be the case you have
rediscovered reality and you're back to
like oh I see why most Champion
bodybuilders don't train their quads
three or four times a week most of them
train them one to two times a week
because that's all the systemic fatigue
can handle but you can do one better you
know periodization to some large extent
maybe from this channel maybe from other
resources and you know that you can
focus on something while easing up on
everything else so if you really want
your quads to come up you can really
focus for a few weeks and a few months
and then take the focus off and make
sure that systemic fatigue is entirely
uh in the realm in which you can control
it and then later you can focus on your
chest or on your back whatever else you
want and that brings me to the final
Point here the implications from all
this
first what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now higher frequency programs might not
be as beneficial in the real world as
they might seem from some of the
research literature which means that the
my take home from this and you don't
have to have your take home from this be
this just take it for what it is I think
three times a week is high frequency for
most people I think two times a week is
normal I think one time a week is low
frequency that's how I how I
contextualize it five or six times a
week training can work for smaller
muscle groups like forearms and side
belts and biceps sometimes but for like
chest and hamstrings and back it's just
very unlike likely you're going to be
able to pound away five six days a week
um for weeks and weeks on end and get
your best results that's Ultra psycho
high frequency in the context of a total
program it just might be Overkill it
might work for you but if you're
thinking of doing high frequency and
you've never done it before try three
days a week for the shit for like a
muscle or two at a time don't go to six
right away that's insane if you get
great results from three way better than
from two try four times next time go up
nice and slow if you're going to do this
I absolutely recommend a few Messa
Cycles in a row picking a few muscle
groups at a time going high frequency
there and then backing off seeing how
the results were and then trying that on
a few other muscle groups instead of
just like switching to a highfrequency
training plan where you train every
muscle in your body fucking 18 times a
week or some shit like that that's
Overkill and lastly watch your fatigue
especially your joints and conductive
tissues if you're on the fucking hack
Squat and week eight of a fucking legs
everyday program or four time a week
legs and I come chat with you because I
see you at the gym and you're like hey
you look like one of our subscrib and
you're like GE is Mister thanks for
noticing me and I'm like it's not Mister
it's
doctor it's just a respect thing you
know I'm kidding and I'm like hey how
are you feeling on this plan you're like
dude fucking dope man I love it like
okay yeah your legs look bigger you're
like thank you so much how are your
knees you're like
o not good my knees it just get worse
every workout what are you thinking
where's that going to lead to I'll tell
you cuz I've seen it a bunch your knees
get fucked up you have to go to one time
a week with like wait
you start losing a little bit of muscle
and then stabilize at 90% of what you
had before 3 months later your knees
heal completely and you're ready to do
high frequency again to get back up to
100% to have the same cycle repeat
itself don't overreach to that magnitude
especially not your joints and
connective tissues your best high
frequency program is one in which just
in the tail end of the last one to two
weeks of the entire block two or three
mesas of it in the last one to two weeks
of that program your joints feel
unsustainably fucked up that's a great
high frequency program because you know
you're pushing it but it's just for a
few weeks that you're fucked up you heal
after a week or two of that shit go back
into normal volume training everything
heals completely after a few weeks later
and then boom you're Off to the Races a
couple months later you can repeat that
process again but if after one month of
high frequency when you have planned
three more months your joints are fucked
up where are you going where are you
going nowhere you're going to fucked up
joints and I'll tell you this going hard
in the gym means you squeeze the life
blood out of your fucking muscles pain
but if your joints hurt consistently
worse and worse over time you're just
being a fucking idiot there's nobody's
gonna give you an award you get zero
blowjobs from the prom queen Scott um
prom queen is she still dressed with her
the crown and the sash when she's giving
you that the good old bee or heeg in the
motel room later or is she dressed in
something else or is she
neaked
I think I want her to keep it on for the
status yeah my man someday I'll have sex
with a pretty girl but until then I'll
see you next
time