he always trains his calves using a full
range of motion and he only does the top
half who do you think will grow bigger
calves well a new study tested this one
group used a full range of motion and
the other group did half reps staying in
the top half up on their toes after 8
weeks there's the sad part neither group
grew their cavves much at all full range
of em motion saw a tiny bit more growth
but not by much but not giving up the
scientists found a third technique that
actually saw about twice the growth of
the other two this third technique was
something different that I rarely see
people do this time they actually didn't
go up onto their toes at all not once
they just stayed in that bottom half
where their calves are most stretched so
whenever I do calf raises these days I
never fully go up onto my toes anymore I
simply rotate on the balls of my feet
staying in the stretched bottom half you
will be stronger this way though so feel
free to add some weight just make sure
that you still control the negative