what's up everyone so I'm on my way to
do a leg workout at olds gym in Tampa so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to put
up all the clips from the calf training
I do at the beginning of the session and
I'm going to get into the science of all
that and the voiceover so I'll check in
with you guys when I'm in the gym I
think there's a good angle here
[Music]
okay well welcome to the informative
voiceover everyone so the first question
I'd like to look into is whether or not
calf development is more genetically
predetermined or whether or not calves
are more stubborn than other muscles and
while I'm not aware of any direct
research looking at this question I
think we might infer that the calves are
a bit more stubborn simply because
they're being exercised pretty much
anytime you move around by running
walking or even just standing still and
so I think it stands to reason that the
calves might be a bit more resistant to
the so called newbie effect than other
muscles simply because they're already
sort of trained from the age that you
start standing up so when you actually
do start training them you don't see as
much of in effect this of course isn't
true stubbornness it just implies that
they might already be closer to their
genetic growth potential at the time
that you start properly training them
perhaps more importantly in my eyes is
the contribution of one's skeleton on
the muscles architecture in subsequent
appearance for example someone with
small ankles and high inserting calves
will probably always have smaller
looking calves than someone with thicker
ankles and low inserting calves now but
that isn't to say that the former person
isn't able to get them to grow it just
means that the end result will be
relative to their starting place which
is true of every muscle and not unique
to the calves so another consideration
would be muscle fiber composition and we
know that the soleus muscle which lies
underneath but is actually bigger in
cross-sectional area than the
gastrocnemius shows a very high
proportion of type 1 or slow-twitch
muscle fiber with estimates ranging
between 70 and 96 percent and since slow
twitch fibers have been repeatedly shown
to be less hypertrophic in response to
at least a high intensity training
regime that stands to reason that this
could be at least in part responsible
for the seeming stubbornness of the
calves as a whole but of course this
only speaks to the soleus muscle not the
gastroc it also isn't to say that there
isn't a potential way around this
so-called fiber type problem which I'll
get to and then lastly on this question
I've heard some experts in the field
speculate that androgen receptor density
is lower in the calves and there is some
research to support this notion as well
which might explain why the calves seem
to be more resistant to growth acutely
than other muscles but given enough time
will
nonetheless all right so to get into the
actual workout I kick things off with
five to ten minutes on the Stairmaster
and this is something I do before every
training session but I believe it to be
especially important in the case of calf
training so that the muscles have you
know an adequate blood flow with
sufficiently warm and wax joints but
mostly because a mind muscle connection
with the calves can be more difficult to
establish for a lot of people performing
what would be in essence a couple of
hundred reps of bodyweight plantar
flexion can function as a sort of pre
activation technique for the calves so
the first exercise was the single leg
standing calf raise and there are few
things I want to note here the first is
that I do these single legged because I
do have a slight right-to-left imbalance
where my right is a bit bigger than my
left and if I do them bilaterally or
both legs at the same time my right
tends to take over and so doing them one
leg at a time basically forces each leg
to fire individually and equally and
this was my main heavy movement so I
loaded these in the six to eight rep
range took each set quite close to
failure the purpose here is to sort of
fully activate the fast twitch fibers
and the slow twitch fibers of both the
gastroc and the soleus and what I really
want to focus on here is the rep tempo
so you want to aim for a two to three
second negative with a slight pause at
the bottom and then a one-second
positive with a slight squeeze at the
top
that's a written in official tempo
notation it would look like this and the
reason for this is that if you're
allowing yourself to bounce out of the
bottom of a calf raise your actual calf
muscles are doing very little of the
work because your elastic tissues are
doing the brunt of it pausing for a
second or two at the bottom of each rep
allows the potentially stored elastic
energy to dissipate so that the muscles
are made more responsible for overcoming
the application of load and speaking of
which you'll notice I am using a plate
to load held in my hand this is mostly
because this gym just didn't have a
proper standing calf raise machine
either variant works virtually the same
one advantage of performing these with
free weights like this is that you can
lean slightly more forward or backward
through the range of motion and find a
posture that allows you to sort of feel
your calves firing the best or at least
what feels most comfortable rather than
being locked into a machine which can
sort of restrict you to a strict
up-and-down motion which can be
uncomfortable or feel on
and also because the top of my shoes can
sometimes restrict my plantar flexion
range of motion I'll do these barefoot
often okay so the second exercise was a
horizontal leg press calf jump and if
anyone has ever tried this exercise I'd
love to hear from you as far as I know
this is an invention of mine that
borrows from the calf jump exercise
which I first heard of from Meno Hensel
Mane's and the idea here is to mimic a
jumping movement pattern where you bend
the knees slightly as well as the hips
and pretend as if you were just jumping
up against the seat from what I
understand the purpose here is twofold
first you improve the resistance curve
by accelerating out of the bottom with
max speed which acts to sort of offset
the fact that the strength curve of the
calves decreases or levels off
throughout the concentric contraction so
basically the explosive force that you
generate out at the bottom carries over
to the top end of the range where the
calves are weaker it also tends to just
be a more natural movement pattern for
the same reason that the calf raise
machine tends to be more awkward sort of
gets you out of that unnatural straight
up and down motion that these machines
tend to generate the reason that I do
these on this machine rather than the
traditional calf raise machine is
because I find it loads my spine less
which I believe to be injury
preventative or in my case
rehabilitative so the third exercise was
the donkey calf raise the main rationale
for this movement is activation based by
a 2000 book by Bo heck bare hands and
bus keys investigating relative EMG
activity for a variety of calf movements
found the donkey calf raised to come out
on top and this might warrant doing them
first and with the greatest intensity
however unless you have someone to sit
on your back or a machine to load it
they can be practically difficult to
load heavily in my experience and so I
prefer to just have a plate placed on my
lower back and do these with higher reps
and again and importantly a controlled
tempo with a slight pause at the bottom
and I'll also quickly mention foot
position here so you want your feet to
be pointing straight ahead as pointing
them in and pointing them out have both
been shown to decrease muscle activation
especially pointing them out which
according to one source can cut
activation roughly in half finally the
last movement of this workout was a
seated calf raise and the idea here is
to isolate the soleus since the gastroc
is much less active when the knee is
bent the reason for this is that unlike
the soleus the gastroc crosses both the
ankle joint and the knee joint
so when your knee is bent the gastroc is
shortened up at the knee
as a result can't shorten as much short
in other words contract as much at the
ankle and this is called active
insufficiency so in the gas rocks
relative absence the soleus takes the
brunt of the work again you'll remember
from earlier that the soleus is
predominantly slow-twitch while the jury
is still out on whether or not type one
fibers respond better to lightweights
and high reps than heavyweights I think
it still seems most plausible to me
for example this 2007 paper by Newt raba
Attell and this paper by Mitchell ita√∫
both found that slow twitch fibers were
more responsive to higher reps but then
a later 2012 paper showed them to be
less responsive to high reps but even on
the face of equivocal data I tend to
prefer higher reps for the soleus given
that even in theory since you know
according to the size principle slow
twitch motor units are recruited first
and should at the very least be active
for a longer duration for sets that are
higher rep as a result should receive
higher levels of fatigue and possibly a
larger hypertrophic stimulus as a result
so for this reason here we did 15 to 20
reps again with that same sort of slow
controlled tempo as always alright guys
so that was my workout I just like to
conclude by saying that it might be
smarter to break this up into two
workouts if you're hitting legs roughly
twice a week which you should be anyway
in my opinion I think most people would
benefit from splitting this workout up a
little bit more but of course that will
always be specific to the individual in
their sort of entire training routine I
wanted to quickly welcome any new
subscribers to the channel there's been
an uptick in subscriptions lately so
welcome to everyone who is new and I am
going to be doing a chest science
explained video and the very near future
so you can stay tuned for that alright
what's up everyone so we just finished
up with the leg workout I hope that you
enjoyed the calf training clips
hopefully it was informative you guys
like the video please do me a favor and
hit the thumbs up button it's actually
very helpful to me always
that you want more videos like this a
way to guarantee you can see them in by
clicking right here you subscribe to the
channel comments welcome to questions
for me or comments for me I'm always
happy to read all of them into level to
you guys in the next video
[Music]
ride the book down the monster Monte
okay
wait oh oh