all right what's going on guys
so in this video I plan on discussing
how it is that I've progressed across
the last four weeks since I've been
following a bro split and how it is I
would recommend setting up your bro
split so that it not only makes sense
within the microcycle or within the the
five-day split itself but also across
the span of say four to six weeks
generally what we're looking for is to
have Mazal cycles that themselves have
some sort of progression scheme across
lineup in such a way that you know what
you're doing at the beginning of the
year is less than what you're doing at
the end of the year or whatever time
frame you have for yourself
that doesn't mean that in each and every
block of training the total amount of
work or the total amount of volume
always has to increase it doesn't have
to be linear like that we can have
blocks of training where the volume goes
down and say the intensity goes up or
perhaps blocks of training where there's
more of a focus on active recovery and
intensity and volume or both flow the
main thing that you're after when it
comes to long-term planning for
programming is to be at least capable of
doing more over here than you were over
here and so how you actually get from
here to here is going to be dictated by
what it is that you do in those
individual training blocks so what I'm
going to be doing in this video is
zooming in on one of those blocks where
I am running a bro split and covering
how it is that across the course of that
bro split I've ensured that I've made
progress now I find that what a lot of
people do is they tend to get
overwhelmed and I find they sort of get
paralysis by analysis when it comes to
long-term planning and when I talk about
long-term planning I don't mean that you
know exactly what you're doing on this
day one year from now essentially all it
means is that you've set some goals
you're regularly reviewing those goals
as you go on and you're setting up plans
on the short-term to ensure that you get
to that long-term goal and I just want
to outline quickly two points that I
think are
times overlooked when it comes to
progression and those are eating
adequate amount of calories and working
hard if you just have a fancy
progression scheme and you're just going
for a target number of reps or a target
percentage of your one rep max and
you're just consistently having lots of
basical type workouts then that's going
to hinder your progression so the first
option that's available to you and
running a bro split is to take what I
would call a fully intuitive approach to
progression and this is what I'm
currently doing myself and I found it to
be extremely rewarding in terms of both
progress and actually really enjoying my
training and essentially how this works
is you just have to give yourself
feedback from the previous week and not
change things to too much from week to
week the importance of tracking when
doing an intuitive approach to
progression something that I just can't
emphasize enough that were actually
tracking the numbers there's really no
way to be sure that you're adding volume
over time all that you do is you
basically look at what you did last week
and you either add a rep or you add some
weight or you add a set and which of
those three you choose to increase can
depend on what it is you're feeling that
day I look at my training Journal from
the previous week I look at the
exercises I used and I will keep most of
them the same I might switch one
exercise out and alternate between
exercises week to week in which case
I'll just look at what I did two weeks
ago when I did that exercise before and
ensure that I either add a set or a rep
or some weight and there doesn't have to
be any fancy paralyzation scheme you
don't have to undulate the reps weekly
or anything like that
as long as you're able to add something
to your sets across the course of the
mezcla cycle then what you've done it is
going to yield some progress for you I
think it's worth noting that the easiest
way to add volume across the weeks would
be to add sets since you're able to just
add so many more reps than just adding
say one rep to each set or adding you
know five pounds to the to the machine
or
to the bar or whatever so adding sets
across a Mazal cycle can be a very
useful tool in terms of drastically
increasing your volume so to ensure that
I don't get to willy nilly with my
progression across the course of the
Mazal cycle I do set two constraints on
myself the first being a rep range
constraint so for any given exercise I
will either work in the 5 to 10 10 to 15
or 15 to 20 repre and I try to ensure
that about half of my training volume is
coming from within the 10 to 15 rep
range for for this particular training
cycle and then I also set some sort of
RPE
constraint on myself I'm not too too
strict with this but I do generally try
to leave about 1 rep in the tank so I
set myself generally speaking about an
RP of 9 and then I'll typically take the
last set of each exercise to failure I
won't always do that on the compound
lifts like the squat bench pressing the
deadlift and I always leave notes for
myself to give myself an idea of how a
set felt the previous week I have my own
little notation system where an upwards
arrow indicates that the weight was too
light and I need to increase the weight
next time a sideways arrow will indicate
that the weight was perfect that week so
I should probably keep that the same for
the first set the next week and a
downwards arrow indicates that the
weight was a little bit too heavy my
form probably got a little bit loose on
the exercise and so it might not be a
bad idea to drop the weight back a
little bit the next week and in essence
the arrows don't really differ too much
from the RPE scale that's really just a
way of letting yourself know how
difficult a given set felt but I do find
that the arrows sort of just directly
let me know okay I need to decrease the
weight next week you're given an exact
direction with which you should take
your your sets the following week and
then in addition I will include some
other auto-regulatory techniques such as
the dapr Yi system where you do one set
that will call the test set after your
warmups
you'll take that to essentially
concentric failure and then based on how
many reps you get with that set that's
going to determine what it is that you
do for your subsequent sets so let's say
that you have
target of six to eight reps for your
working sets and you go in and you do
your test set with a weight that you
think you can probably do somewhere
around six to eight reps to failure and
you get ten reps with it then you
underestimated your strength you were
stronger than you thought you were going
into the test set so you would want to
bump the weight up say by ten percent
and then conversely if you took your
approximate six to eight rep max for
that day to failure but you only got
four or five reps then for the working
sets you would decrease the load by five
to ten percent and then carry out your
working sets to failure with that
adjusted load so this is a way of
prescribing the loads that you use on
any given training day based on how it
is you're feeling that day I find that
part of the appeal to the bro split is
just being able to be flexible and being
able to do what it is you feel like
you're capable of doing on that given
day there are of course other ways that
you can progress across a bro split I
would direct you guys to a fantastic
video I'll put a link here done by Eric
Helms of three dmj and he covers in
quite a bit of detail probably what are
the best progression schemes that are
available and I will just quickly touch
on them here and so the first one is
essentially a percentage based approach
figure out why your 1 rep max is for a
lift and then you prescribe your loads
based on a percentage of that 1 rep max
throughout the course of say four to
eight weeks you can undulate the low BP
or whatever but the main idea is that at
the end you're doing more than you were
at the beginning and when you're here
you can test your maxes again plug in
the new numbers and now you've got more
weight on the bar automatically you're
handling more volume so another approach
that we have in terms of a more
structured progression scheme would be a
simple linear progression so an example
of this would be say you're working in
the 6 to 8 rep range and you have three
sets to do on on a given exercise in
beak one you would do say hundred pounds
for three sets of eight week two you
would do 105 pounds you add a little bit
of weight but do three sets of seven
in Week three you would do a 110 pounds
so add another another little bit more
weight for three sets of six and so you
can see that across the three weeks the
volume has decreased but the load that
you're handling has gone up and so when
the volume decreases and the intensity
increases just call that linear
progression and then in the fourth week
you might want to do a little D load or
something and then you would repeat the
cycle so when you come back to the
beginning now in week five
you would be doing 105 pounds for three
sets of eight so a little bit more
weight and then there's your your
increase in volume and then you would
just repeat that cycle as long as you're
progressing and then a third approach
that I like to use is sort of a reverse
linear approach so this works well in
sort of the higher rep ranges where it's
difficult to add load each and every
workout so let's say that 12 to 15 rep
range week one say you have three sets
of twelve week two you're going to add a
rep somewhere so say you do three sets
of thirteen week three you do three sets
of Orsay so you do two sets of 13 in one
set of fourteen and you just keep going
until you get to three sets of fifteen
so you don't add any weight to the
movement until you max out the top end
of that rep range once you max over the
top end of the rep range you go back to
the beginning where you're doing three
sets of twelve except now you've got
more weight on the bar so you increase
the load so I think that an intuitive
approach to progression is most
appropriate when your intrinsic
motivation is high and also when you
have a desire for a little bit more
increased flexibility and then on the
other hand I think that the structured
approach while it can be fitted into in
an intuitive approach and they can be
blended together I think I think that a
structured approach is good for someone
who who wants more structure may not be
quite as motivated in the gym and wants
to ensure that they are in fact
progressing so guys I hope that you you
learn something throughout the course of
this video coming and
as always guys thank you so much for
watching see in the next coming you come
in your life and :