[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth busting day this week we're
gonna be looking at the science
investigating spot reduction also known
as targeted fat loss so basically the
idea that you can selectively lose body
fat from specific areas or body parts
it's common to see trainers argue that
if you do certain ab exercises your body
will pull more fat from that ab area or
if say you store more fat on the back of
your arms doing high rep tricep
extensions will burn that fat
specifically and I think it makes
intuitive sense that your body would use
fat stored closest to the active muscle
to provide the energy needed for that
exercise I mean if you're doing a set of
crunches why would your body pull fat
from say your face or your legs when it
could easily just grab fat directly
above the exercising muscle well I think
to answer this question we need to first
look at how fat is burned in the first
place as to the fat actually inside of
our fat cells is in a form called
triglyceride but muscle can't use
triglycerides directly as a fuel source
so first the fat must be broken down
into glycerol and free fatty acids these
then enter the bloodstream meaning that
any fat being used to fuel exercise is
going to pull from the bloodstream in
general which of course circulates
throughout the entire body so this seems
to imply that fat can come from anywhere
not just the area being exercised
currently but I think before we can call
this myth busted just yet
we need to look into the peer-reviewed
scientific literature so there are four
studies I'd like to look at the first
was published back in 1971 and this was
the first study to actually put the spot
reduction hypothesis to the test
basically the researchers wanted to find
out if there were body fat differences
between the active swinging arm and non
active non swinging arm and tennis
players so they measured the thickness
of subcutaneous fat on both arms of
tennis players thinking that if spot
reduction were true then the active arms
should have less fat on it but that
wasn't the case even though the active
arm was more hypertrophy so it had more
muscle there was no difference in the
thickness of subcutaneous fat over the
muscles of the arm receiving more
exercise um so this is strike
one against the spot reduction theory
but keep in mind that this isn't an
actual interventional study it is simply
observational so we shouldn't draw
strong conclusions on its basis alone so
up next is an actual interventional
study published in 2007 which took 104
subjects so 45 men and 59 women and ran
them through a 12-week training
progressive program with their
non-dominant arm only so they did
preacher curls tricep extensions
concentration curls etc but only on one
arm at the end of the 12 weeks they
measured arm fat volume using MRI and
found that subcutaneous fat volume
changes were not different between the
trained and untrained arms in men and
women so this is strike number 2 for
spot reduction but this study also isn't
the best because when you look at the
actual data you'll see that not much fat
was lost in these 12 weeks period so it
isn't surprising that you wouldn't see
spot reduction since there wasn't that
much fat lost over all to begin with ah
so the next study we need to look at was
published in 2013 and unlike the last
study actually saw a significant amount
of total body fat lost meaning this
study will be better at detecting true
spot reduction if it exists but as it
turns out these researchers didn't find
it either after putting subjects through
a high-volume 12-week lower body program
using only one leg there was no
difference in fat mass changes between
the trained and untrained legs so up to
this point it's really looking like
three strikes you're out for the spot
reduction theory and this was the
general scientific consensus for a long
time this was until a brand-new study
published just last year out of the
University of Rome in Italy found the
exact opposite result this study also
used a 12-week training program except
unlike the others which used only one
limb they split subjects into an upper
body only and a lower body only group
another important detail is that after
the training sessions all of the
subjects performed 30 minutes of light
cycling and as you can see here in the
graph the results were really impressive
let's just look here at the arms and the
legs the red bars represent the subjects
who trained upper body only and the
green bars represent the subjects who
trained lower body only and I think
clearly spot reduction is at play here
the group who hit upper body only lost
way more fat
their arms but way less fat in their
lower body and vice-versa the lower body
group lost way less arm fat but way more
leg fat and this is despite the fact
that both groups lost the same amount of
whole body fat overall oh so this was
really interesting to say the least and
it was covered in a recent issue of the
mass research review where dr. Eric
Helms highlights the possibility that
local muscular work increases blood flow
to that nearby fat tissue increasing
mobilization of those stores now under
normal circumstances after entering the
bloodstream if that fat isn't
immediately burned off there's nothing
to prevent it from being stored again
however if one was to perform low
intensity aerobic exercise which
predominantly uses fat for fuel then now
free fatty acids would likely be used to
fuel this activity but Helm's also
advises us to be very cautious with
these findings since it is just one
study after all and it had a small
sample size meaning the results could be
a fluke so all in all we have at least
three pretty solid strikes against spot
reduction but one new and very
interesting study found a specific
application for this once debunked idea
I'm so all-in-all I would say the idea
that targeted fat loss or spot reduction
is real is not busted I think that based
on the current state of the scientific
literature we just can't say for sure
whether or not targeting fat loss on
specific body parts is possible or not
I personally remain highly skeptical
given the equivocal nature of the data
and I think that if it is possible it
seems to only be possible if you do low
intensity cardio right after hitting the
body part that you're trying to target
I'm so doing crunches on their own
probably won't help you selectively
target ab fat but if you were to do some
cardio right after doing crunches it
just might work
since the cardio might help burn off
those free fatty acids that were
liberated from the fat covering the ABS
I'm just from the increased blood flow
to that area so all in all I'm not
confident actually making this
recommendation I think that a sustained
caloric deficit progressive resistance
exercise and sufficient protein intake
are the three pillars of quality fat
loss and in my coaching experience I've
always found every time that stubborn
fat areas are just simply the last areas
to lean out so
think the most practical recommendation
from my perspective is to just keep diet
continue to get leaner and eventually
that stubborn area will lean out as well
um so that's it for this one guys before
we go I have to thank Dollar Shave Club
for sponsoring this video we all have
our everyday grooming routines showering
brushing your teeth shaving etc and most
people don't realize that Dollar Shave
Club actually covers all of these bases
and offers all of these grooming
products to have you looking feeling and
smelling your best so for viewers of
this channel Dollar Shave Club is
basically giving away their daily
essentials starter set to new members
for only 5 bucks with Free Shipping so
the starter set includes 3 trial sized
versions of their most popular products
so the shave butter body wash 1 wipe
Charlies and their executive razor with
the premium weighty handle and a full
cassette of cartridges and then after
the first box replacement cartridges are
sent for only a few bucks a month so if
you go to dollarshaveclub.com
forward slash Nippert can take advantage
of this $5 offer and that's
dollarshaveclub.com forward slash
Nippert and i'll have that as the first
link down there in the description so
thanks again Dollar Shave Club for
showing your support on the channel I
really appreciate it thank you guys so
much for watching please leave me a like
if you learn something new and don't
forget to subscribe if you happen to be
new to the channel and I'll see you guys
all here next Monday