super setting side to front raise is not
so intelligent because you're just kind
of using different parts of your
shoulders I think it's okay but I would
like to see two kind of very different
muscles get suers seted in this style so
that one muscle is really completely
left alone while the other muscles go as
hard something like a set of squats
super seted to a set of lateral raises
that can because you don't use your
shoulders when you Squat and you don't
use your legs when your lateral raise so
one rests while the other one is burning
you flip the script and you can get a
lot out of both muscles muscles training
muscles are very close to each other or
especially muscles which a lot of actual
fiber overlap like a lot of the time
when you do uh scapular plane side delt
stuff you actually hit a lot of front
delt and vice versa when you do front
raisers you get a lot of side belts so
not an excellent combo I would say