the truth is Noob gains in the gym it
doesn't last forever why not why isn't
it possible it's just not why not you
stupid bastard why does the natural
limit exist well as you keep lifting and
you become more trained your muscles
might become a little bit more
anabolically resistant in other words
when you're sending them the signal to
increase muscle protein synthesis as you
keep training and training they become
incrementally more death and unable to
hear you when you tell them to increase
muscle protein creation and finally grow
some muscle it may be that anabolic
signaling Pathways become more
refractory to loading with chronic
training partially explaining muscle
growth Plateau over time importantly
though both mechanistically and in more
applied settings we do have evidence
that taking some time off training might
decrease anabolic resistance slightly
and resensitize your muscles to the
muscle protein synthesis response from
lifting weights allowing you to make
progress in the long term but this
remains pretty speculative we only have
a few studies on this and I wouldn't
Bank on taking time off really boosting
your muscle growth