but if you're fasting that day I mean
you're not recovering at all you're
starving
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization fasting is it a good thing
for you to do now a lot of people will
Fast for one day through the whole week
and they'll say that day is like really
cleansing it's really good for them and
some people will Fast the whole day at
the beginning of their diet one fast day
to begin the whole thing both practices
have some advantages and they have some
disadvantages let's talk about them so
what's the deal upsides of a one daily
fast whether it be once a week or just
once at the beginning of your diet to
kick-start your fat loss diet
first fasting can let you drop a ton of
bloat ASAP I mean you fast for one day
drinking enough fluids obviously you
could lose like five to ten pounds of
just uh just bloat just like under the
skin crap salt water and that can both
make you look way better and sharper and
can make you feel just lighter and Freer
and more amazing and if you've been
stuffing your gullet with food for the
last God knows how long one day of
fasting can make you feel really really
cleansed which is why a lot of the
cleanses are basically fast
it can also challenge you to reduce your
food Focus towards the other day a lot
of us we're so food focused all the time
they're what are we eating for breakfast
what about lunch what about dinner what
about snacks if you're fasting well
there's nothing on the menu and it makes
you kind of re-architect your thinking a
little bit so that you focus on work you
focus on relationships you focus on like
looking at birds and shit whatever
Buddhist people say You're supposed to
pay attention to when you're outside
shit like that leaves wrestling
Chipmunks you know nature is metal so
don't look too close but in any case
maybe an appreciation for things that
take you away from your excessive food
Focus which can also help you later on
in that diet once you become less food
focused it's easy to stay that way but
if you're really food focused on the
diet starts you're still food focused
but the food amounts are smaller you can
be even more food focused it's just a
bad time
tough to be food focused when you're uh
completely not eating anything at least
I'll say it's easy to take your mind off
food because you can just tell yourself
look there's no food there's nobody
coming no one's coming to help that's it
might as well not think about it
you in many cases people when they eat a
bunch of food all the time they're kind
of in a parasympathetic State kind of a
state of relaxation and digestion and
that state can make you feel a little
bit drowsy and make your head a little
bit fuzzy if you are fasting it can
actually raise your fight or flight
hormones just a little bit to keep you
feeling really razor sharp and believe
it or not not eating for a whole day can
sometimes make you feel kind of sharper
it could give you a little bit more
clarity than you're used to and that can
be quite nice in and of itself people
report this all the time with fasting
say dude I did a day of fasting I feel
so fucking clean and sharp and focused
it definitely happens to many people
and as a standalone by itself for your
health at least acutely your glucose and
insulin and fat Dynamics in your
bloodstream all improve like crazy
fasting in one little day is a very
healthy for your longevity long-term
Health total inflammation all that stuff
really starts to fix up so definitely
some acute health benefits there and of
course because you didn't eat anything
all day long you burned a lot of fat in
one day so it's absolutely green check
marking you on your way to your goal of
being leaner so those are all distinct
upsides however there are downsides with
one whole day of fasting on occasion or
even just at one point
first some people have this mental
Clarity experience with fasting other
people do not other people just get
annoyed and become very hungry and
someone's like how did your fast go
you're like fucking terrible I didn't
eat anything it was awful what did you
think it was going to be
that's what it was going to be like huh
other people say it's great well they
fuck all those other people I'm gonna
eat those people when I see them next
time and I'm on a fast so okay fine
fasting can stop you have energy but
it's not a mystery as to how this
happens you see you see the food that
you eat that has the energy and when you
don't eat the food you don't get the
energy now sometimes your own body's own
endogenous system starts to kick up you
get a little bit of that sympathetic
fight or flight response you feel like
you have plenty of energy but for some
people it doesn't quite work that way
and they're more on the side of like if
I don't if I eat everything's hunky-dory
if I don't eat I have my energy level is
destroyed I just kind of mope around all
day and kind of sit there cold in a
blanket and then nothing good happens
that's totally a possibility with
fasting
outside of the challenge itself
occasional fasting seems to not confer
any Dependable long-term health benefits
or psychological upsides so if it's cool
and fun and you really like it amazing
if it's something that's super
inconvenient you fucking hate doing it
it's not that you should feel compelled
to do it because of all but it has all
these benefits it fasting doesn't have
any more benefits than controlling your
calories for several months at a time
and losing fat if you do it by
intermittently fasting and then eating
normal or if you do it by eating a
little bit less each day you get
essentially the same outcome so fasting
is not critical and so there's no
long-term upsides that you should be
like you have to fast we should Scott we
should thumbnail and title this video
like fasting must do's and it's like
total fucking clickbait because like we
actually you don't have to fast
um another thing is most of you guys
watching this Channel at least a good
deal if you train really hard right
you're using the RPM purchase app uh
Link in the description ah you guys like
that that's called funnel hacking I
think that's what uh vshrad does
if you're training hard
fasting does not comport with that at
all
if you're training hard that day you
want to eat that day to power your
training if you're training hard that
day you want to eat later that day to
power your recovery if you're not
training on that day you could be
recovering Like Whoa by eating good
nutritious food and getting plenty of
rest and relaxation and sleep but if
you're fasting that day I mean you're
not recovering at all
you're starving and starvation does not
confer recovery not you buy a little not
by a lot so if you are in the process of
being a physical individual who lifts
weights who does Sports fasting it
there's not really a lot of
intersections with that because you're
much better off actually recovering and
eating nutritious food than fasting
and to that end fasting will make you
lose some muscle now if you just do it
one day here one day there you gain all
that muscle back no problem but if you
want to maximize muscle growth and
minimize muscle loss in any kind of plan
fasting
the opposite of muscle growth promotes a
lot of muscle loss muscle loss you have
to get back later so uh really when you
think about it
um if you're trying to be jacked and
lean uh fasting there's no direct route
by which fasting is the thing that you
should be doing
charitably
so those are the downsides
as I see it what are the best practices
you can take away from this whole
discussion first nobody needs to fast
for a whole day or two or three nobody
needs that
if you do fast
drink plenty of fluids and electrolytes
Gatorade zeros
don't stand up too quickly especially if
you're not used to it because of
orthostatic hypertension you could
actually pass out that happens if you
don't eat for a whole day you get up
really quick your blood sugar is like
fuck you and you're like oh I'm on the
ground now and I'm waking up and there's
blood everywhere
and there's demons everywhere I died and
went to hell finally finally it happened
to me I taught him went to hell and I'm
so excited
I used to be a professional singer
every now and again I loop back to
singing and when I sing most people have
nothing to say about it because they're
so fucking awestruck at how good I am
other people will talk about angels and
about like Madonna people compare me to
Prince
um I'm just tired of it I just got out
of the whole singing business this is
twos too much of this too much gossip
about me I went into sports science
instead in any case careful standing up
quick
um take it easy don't do too much
physical activity if you do a ton of
physical activity while you're not
eating food again it's going to be an
insane amount of fatigue you'll have to
deal with later or deal with right then
and there because you'll like hit the
wall and be like I can't I can walk
around anymore I can't move dehydrated
all this really bad stuff
and big one if you do fast on occasion
because they make you feel great fucking
keep doing them amazing
don't go back to binging on bullshit the
day after
right it's this classic Trope of the
fucking cigarette smoking beer drinking
cheeseburger eating hipster with little
hipster body again I'm working Illinois
I'm trying to get into Hollywood but you
know slow roll like sweet my man and
again I'm gonna do a fast I'm gonna do a
cleanse man been really bad to my body
you're like yeah that's good what are
you gonna do after that like
back to the bullshit bro fucking
cheeseburgers and twinkies and
cigarettes you're like ah fuck so if
you're if you're willing to invest a day
long fast to get your health started
feeling good A little cleanse keep it
going the day after the fast don't just
go get pizza that's what your body's
gonna want go get some healthy food and
keep the health shit going because
eating healthy food in moderation is not
nearly as difficult as fasting so if you
fast for a day or two and then you start
your healthy diet that could be a really
great transition but a lot of people who
fast for a day or two after that like I
did it I'm finally healthy let's go ruin
it again by eating McDonald's for three
hours straight not a good idea
there is no avoiding hard training if
you want to grow but if you want to grow
the most your training needs to be hard
and smart RP hypertrophy app will make
will make sure you're progressing on
track monitoring and adjusting your
workout at all times so for all that
work you're doing you can be sure you're
getting the best results
if you don't fast on occasion
but you're lean and active you do not
need to fast
and if you do fast unless it's the
psychological benefits you're just not
getting a lot out of it
especially with the trade-offs of daily
energy decline from fasting
the necessity of eating around your
workouts of building muscle continuously
throughout the day no there is yes there
is an increase in growth hormone when
you're fasting because growth hormone
has multiple functions in the body and
one of them is to liberate fat for use
by the rest of your body that's why the
growth hormone Spike occurs and if the
growth hormone Spike occurs without the
presence of carbohydrates and amino
acids which are things you get from food
that actually does not cause any muscle
growth it just causes fat loss which duh
you're fasting and not much else so
don't think that fasting is going to get
you jacked because of growth hormones
bike that is a myth we'll just kill
right here that just does not happen
because to get jacked you see you have
to eat food that's how that works so
fasting it can be cool for psychological
reasons it can feel really cleansing
it's definitely not bad for your health
and it can be a slight positive in some
contexts do it right if you're going to
do it but if you don't do fasting Just
Eat Well train hard dealing be happy and
occasionally just think about exposing a
part of your body that you typically
don't show in a weird social context
which you could get in trouble for it's
exhilarating
and that's all I'm gonna say oh wait uh
hypertrophy app link in the description
just give just give them thought is what
I'm trying to say send me DMS I'm
waiting for your DMs of your nudity see
you guys next time