[Music]
hangout on our balcony balcony is not
the biggest but other good view okay
guys so before going to the beach I
figured I'd come here and do a bit of
work on my edit so steps is scarf for
breakfast with our sisters I haven't had
breakfast yet to start with the late
breakfast and have a submaster day show
you guys basically how I edit so this is
my arm science explain storyboard I use
Final Cut Pro X my edits are usually
pretty crazy so I have all the audio
stuff down here these are my different
voiceovers music and then these are all
the sort of main clips and then I add
sort of like animated components on top
all with key framing so yeah I do all my
titling and all of the animations and
everything all in Final Cut yeah that's
it breakfast the thing about Florida is
it's so hot out sighs I feel like people
overcompensate by turning the AC all the
way up inside so I get so cold if I had
to work inside for more than like an
hour in so excited about here by the
school I think we had checked out but I
still have my like Hotel wristband so
figured I'd come to the pool and laze
around here a little bit oh oh my what a
wonderfull turn mid minutes up towards
abouts I figured I'd get in a little bit
of peridot on the beach so yeah just
going for a light walk
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
NAD+ precious hungry do you have any
idea what was totally how do they this
is my new obsession these right here the
best monster by far I don't know if you
can get them everywhere yet but they're
starting to show up in more and more
places little pit stop getting some
monster and quick snacks and then we're
on our way to st. Augustine for Travis
Scott concert chick-fil-a and this is
what I was going to check for let just
get a grilled chicken sandwich and I dip
a little bit of that in chick-fil-a
sauce I think this is something like 400
calories a decent amount of protein got
two and a half hours left in this fries
I'm going to check into our hotel grab a
quick shower or the culture I got
sunburned a little bit today - I don't
know if you can see it where's the
Florida Sun I try to I try to warn this
Canadian that the Sun is no joke here
and all what can I have to meet Egypt
you know at least even how it was be
alright every single person who's given
me Egypt travel advice has been like
really library pair yourself for the
heat yeah very good location presented
donuts right next to our hotel holiday
oh wow you slam dunking man seriously
I would assume they would connect the
pencil that how many something on it's
close you know cuz I'm going to be
hungry after this concert 757 concert
starts at 8 but we just realize that
there's an opening act call it I've
heard some of this stuff but I'm not a
huge fan so we're going to miss him grab
a shower and then head over to signal
church oh why oh my what a wonderful
turn
bitterness and rest
oh my god haha here though
see the clip robos processor it started
at II I'm gonna we've got a 22 minute
drive to the amphitheater cute come on
just getting here the hotel and now
we're heading over to the concert we're
going to grab some donuts at Dunkin
Donuts first fastest possible Oh top of
pretzel sounds good G chocolate roll in
the vanilla
they're not as good as can party so is
really good it's like a combination of
sweet salty sweetness
[Music]
[Music]
don't you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
what's up I going up so we just finished
up at the concert Travis Scott is just
like crazy performer it was like super
super good lives
we're here at Walmart now picking up
some snacks bring back to the hotel room
my honest take on the on the concert was
that it was a little bit short he
apparently had a curfew at the venue and
so he could only play a certain number
of songs it was a really short show but
the songs that he did play we're super
height yeah we're going to get some some
ice cream or something and take it back
to the hotel you want something like
bakes or like pop volume of it not
feeling like that
there's no sour cream and cheddar baked
chips with it we hear candies and sweet
potatoes are some serious or they're
oven baked oh we're very serious houses
ponder and Hanuman I feel like it's the
Baker
does it look like like I'm gonna do
something like that with low-fat John
with the sour cream and onion lately
self Pringles sounds good
they're all in pieces now that letter
chicken butter chicken chicken green
beans please no Pringles
you can agree the next time we play we
play a Christian so excited in guys it
was pretty so yeah I feel like it means
we have to play a game again we should
we should film the whole the whole thing
to stop dude thank you for one night of
sack alright so got a food okay okay so
this is the post concert snack situation
some water some cards zero swedish fish
oven baked chips microwavable butter
chicken dinner don't ask and some
lightly salted
sour cream Pringles what did you get
that season arctic bureau I'm not
pregnant yet
good morning everyone it is Sunday May
the 7th and we're still here in st.
Augustine we're just getting some
breakfast so I've got egg white omelet
turkey sausage a bun it was quite a good
fun a biscuit right ok so a biscuit two
pieces of holy toast banana and some
grits so I'm increasing my caloric
intake leading into the trip to Egypt
we're going to eat this I'm going to do
some work on the computer and we're
going to go train now we're going to
take some pre-workout and go to our
first workout in two days ok I'll eat
exudative I just really want an upper
body pump my upper body like if I don't
train for like two or three days I feel
like my upper body just starts to feel
really flat especially playing it a
little bit inconsistent like it's been
while we've been on the road that's not
ginger insistence is just like sporadic
like my meal timing is really weird
usually if it's early in the day like it
is now it's like 11:45 in the morning so
I'll usually two scoops of prolific and
one scoop of hyaline so - right so for
you thank you we're going for an
unexpected and leg workout I didn't
think I was doing like today but I guess
I am I have to do a good bit of warm up
I feel like my body's like specific or
something
I feel like flats that haven't trained
and I can stick that haven't moved for
the concert last night
I moved a bit a little bit a little bit
of us I updated everything about like my
powerlifting and my lower back injury in
another video I'll link that in the
description so I won't go into it again
here but I am working my way back up
each week on making small incremental
increases in lows and higher rep range
like 15 15 reps and 15 reps per set kind
of just take more of an intuitive
approach with it lifting when my body
feels like it can handle it
Oh
so here at World Gym st. Augustine and
we're going to hit a leg work that's it
ah
[Music]
ah
[Music]
ah
you
[Music]
something briefly in Orlando for some
food we're here at high hop again in
homeless you oh thank you here's Neil
Neil number three I've got egg white
four strips of turkey bacon some
hashbrowns and these are strawberry
cream pancakes missus steps chicken
omelet fruit and then subscribe totes of
it
[Music]
[Music]