linear periodization reverse linear
periodization undulating periodization
there are many others yet but which is
best for
strength welcome back soon to be Dr Milo
wolf Here Local periodization enjoyer
and today we're talking about
periodization and which periodization
style is best for strength periodization
usually aims to improve your games by
doing two things one taking advantage of
the effect of variation over time on
games and number two is to manage stress
from training a little bit better let's
first look at the evidence on
periodization and whether or not it even
plays a role for improving your strength
gains there was a metanalysis performed
by Moose Garden colleagues a few years
ago that included 35 studies looking at
the effects of different priorization
styles on strength gains in these 35
studies they compared not periodizing to
periodizing and sometimes they compare
different priorization styles like for
example linear priorization to reverse
linear piz ization or reverse linear
periodization to undulating priorization
before we go any further let me explain
what each of these three terms mean
first linear periodization in linear
periodization you gradually increase the
weight as the microcycle goes on and you
decrease the number of reps per set in
Reverse linear periodization the reverse
happens so you increase the number of
reps over the course of the macrocycle
while decreasing the amount of weight on
the bar finally undulating periodization
is kind of a catchall phrase for any
style of priorization that involves
manipulation of variables such as
intensity or weight reps sets RP excise
selection over time it's not a very
specific type but it just refers to
undulating priorization wherein on
Monday you might hit a certain session
Tuesday a different session Wednesday
different session and perhaps every week
in the case of weekly undulating
priorization you would hit the same
sessions again but there's always some
undulation going on in some sort of
variable before we go into the results
of this met analysis by Mo G and
colleagues let me point one thing out in
the periodization groups generally the
training was more specific to the
outcome or to the strength test right
before the test so for example in the
non-p periodization group they simply
performed the same training all
throughout which means even in the week
or two before they tested the Wonder Max
for example they were still doing for
example sets of five the whole way
through whereas in the periodization
groups often times what happened is that
right before the strength test they kind
of what power of those would do and
that's to in increase training
specificity you know train heavier lower
rep sets anything that resembles the
outcome or the strength test more
closely and so because of this reason
regardless of the results there was
generally a slight bias in favor of the
periodization groups what did they find
well they found that periodizing
training led to Greater Wonder max
strength gains compared to not
periodizing training the difference was
relatively small but there was a
difference in the strength gain scene
additionally participants saw greater
gains in their One Max strength when
they used undulating periodization as
opposed to linear periodization so from
the results it seems that periodizing
your training does indeed appear to lead
to more one of max strength gains AKA
make you stronger and that undulating
pation may be better for strength gains
than linear periodization to briefly
touch on muscle growth there were no
differences in muscle growth whether you
periodize your training or not therefore
for muscle growth the effect of
periodization probably isn't something
to consider too closely personally I
still think you should periodize
training somewhat but it's not as
clearcut as with any sort of performance
outcome where you do want to use
priorization generally as a vehicle for
specificity as you get closer and closer
to competition or to a max out
periodization should generally aim to
increase specificity and that's the main
effect of priorization in my view so it
seems like there's no effect of
priorization on muscle growth but there
is an effect on strength why is this
this is where pre-print entitled the
method periodization by stealing
colleagues comes in what they argue in
this very recent preprint is that
periodization is more so based on myths
than it is on actual empirical evidence
they go further and explain that they
think that most of the benefit of
priorization in the research stems from
increasing specificity right before a
test of strength and that in reality
there may be little to no effect of
periodization on strength improvements
in other words by Simply Having
participants train harder and heavier
closer to a max out the periodization
groups May generally just see better
games not so much as a result of
periodization itself but more so of just
increasing specificity as they got
closer and closer to their strength
testing indeed we do know that heavier
training leads to better one rep max
strength gains all us being equal so
those are the two claims put forward by
stealing colleagues I do think there is
a lot of truth to this in reality within
a properly constructed microcycle which
could absolutely argue is a form of
undulating or daily undulating
periodization where in each day of the
week of training looks a bit different
you can absolutely recover just fine and
manage stress pretty well and in fact
the effect of variation itself like
changing exercises week to week on
strength gains or on hypertrophy is
surprisingly contentious there's not
necessarily a huge benefit to constant
variation in training stimuli you don't
need to change exercises or rep ranges
or anything like that as frequently as
some people assume you do for example if
you look at a lot of Westside
programming which has its benefits you
know but equally the degree of variation
the amount of times exercises have
changed loading ranges are changed Etc
that is likely detriment the strength
gains of the people using Westside
training so generally undulating
periodization is better than linear
periodization but I do think the main
thing is training specificity for
strength importantly periodization
Styles don't have to fall squarely into
one or the other linear versus reverse
linear daily undulating versus linear in
reality the best programs the best
planned out and thought Out programs
will often have elements of both linear
for example and daily undulating
priorization so you'll have some
elements of undulating priorization and
so far as each training will look a bit
different in terms of the exact amount
of weight being used the exact amount of
reps being used with the order of the
exercises and all that sort of stuff but
often times really good powerlifting and
strength programs will almost
necessarily have a linear component
wherein the closer you get to a
competition or to a max out the heavier
your training should be and and the more
your rep should decrease and that's an
element of linear periodization as we
discussed earlier you know reps go down
weight goes up as you get closer to a
competition and so besides some
variation across the week for training
monotony you know just not having every
session look the same and having
training generally get heavier or more
specific as you get closer to
competition that incorporates several
different pation styles at once and
that's likely your best bet for strength
gains so we've discussed the evidence
with discussed some of the limitations
of viewing linear periodization versus
undulating periodization and all that
stuff but let me give you some
recommendations practically that you can
take away from this video and apply to
your own training for strength first off
periodization is mainly a vehicle for
training specificity breaking the
monotony of training and maximizing
progress as a result secondly
periodization plays a relatively small
role for strength all else being equal
and for muscle growth it plays little to
no role for strength athletes or anyone
wanting to get stronger in the off
season AKA further away from a
competition or from a max out consider
being a bit less specific you know using
somewhat higher reps and somewhat lower
weights and focusing a bit more on
muscle growth finally I think for the
best strength programs incorporating
some elements of daily undulating
priorization where not every day across
the week looks the same in terms of the
order of exercises in terms of the rep
Rangers being used and some elements of
weekly underl periodization where
training might change a little bit week
to we and finally some elements of
linear periodization where as you get
closer and closer to a competition as
you progress throughout that macro cycle
weights generally get heavier and more
specific to your competition performance
and Reps generally go down anyways
that's the video for my strength
athletes out there if you like the video
please comment like subscribe if you
want to see me deadlift 800 lb leave a
comment down below and I will see you
guys in that next video
peace local periodization
enjoyer