try this next time you wake up in the
morning try to squeeze your fist as hard
as you can middle of the day you can
fucking crunch some shit ow that kind of
hurts my hand but if you just wake up
and your nervous system is not so active
yet try it wake up in the morning and
just try to squeeze your hand as hard as
possible you're going to get the
sensation where you squeeze it you're
like uh what the fuck I can barely pick
up a stapler at this rate it's okay your
nervous system's still waking up but if
you've beaten your nervous system to
shit so much though a huge workout or
five days of huge workouts that you
cannot get really good performances
anymore you're technically in junk
volume and even if you somehow could
muster the will to continue to train
your side belts you're not training them
anymore you're just getting through the
motion because sets of six reps where
you're able to do 12 reps fresh are a
fucking with six reps in reserve I
didn't see the science that that row a
lot of muscle because it does