hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
securitization welcome to hypertrophy
myths number one for me open-ended
series here might have about a trillion
of them after this but at least 10. in
any case the first myth is you've gotta
keep the traps out of the side dealt
training brah
when we examine this myth we are going
to talk about what the myth really is
properly defined we're going to talk
about maybe make some good points is
almost all myths do and talk about the
bad points which I don't misses have
mostly bad points and then just a little
real talk to sum it up and kind of give
you guys some active recommendations so
the claim is you have to keep traps out
of sydelt training and the supposed
rationale are oftentimes that the traps
will take over and Rob your side delts
of gains
so what is the good stuff here what is
the grain of truth and that's definitely
true that there are different ways to
work side delts that help the traps
become more or less engaged and if
you're really interested you can train
your side adults in a way that compare
to all of the other realistic options
engage your traps the least definitely
possible totally if needed
and it's also possible to have a
physique that is so trap dominant and so
small in the side doubts that it kind of
looks super cool but narrow narrow
that's the complaint that bodybuilding
judges sometimes have
um is you know big traps and and
smaller side delts can make a physique
look more narrow it's kind of an
illusion there right what they're saying
is if the traps were smaller and even if
the side delts were no bigger the
physique would look wider because the
traps don't have that narrowing
elongating effect uh you know so fine
critique and definitely true in some
cases
however what is the bad well there are
at least three problems here problem
number one
is that if you really focus on taking
the traps out of side delt work you're
going to rob the side delts of the
exercises and the features of exercises
that often give them the highest raw
stimulus magnitude like the real
punching power to get your side outs big
and even the best stimulus to fatigue
ratios right a similar thing to how
involved your traps are with various
lateral raises and side dealt work is
how involved your glutes are with quad
work if you said look my glutes I don't
want my glutes taking over my leg
presses and legs
squats and my squats I just I want to to
train my quads in a way that's only
quads you're just down to leg extensions
and like nobody really builds big ass
quads with just leg extensions unless
you're some kind of genetic freak it's
just like taking away all your best
exercises and because you're so scared
that your glutes are going to get too
big you actually just have small quads
because you do shitty odd training know
if you did hack squats and lag process
and squats in such a way that minimizes
your glute involvement but still accepts
some large amount of glute involvement
is critical to even be able to overload
the quads then yeah you're going to be
getting great results but there's only
so much glute minimization you can have
in a quad program until it really gets
in the way of training quads and the
same thing is true for side delts and
traps be careful taking traps too much
out of side delts because you could pull
away all the good stuff you know it's
like ordering a soup at a restaurant be
like I don't want Peas I don't want
carrots in it I want potatoes I want
that it's too much fat and they go root
and there's just water like salt but not
too much salt right so it's barely
salted water but that's not what you
ordered that's not what's gonna you know
heal up the old tummy pains or however
people speak to other humans about
Hunger
um
it's a bad deal you don't want to throw
the baby out with the bathwater and one
of the ways in which this happens is an
easy way to reduce the Trap involvement
is to reduce the range of motion to some
extent so if you only bring your arm up
to about here and down and here the
traps don't become as active there's a
lot of good stuff going on for that's
when your side belts actually activate
the most here and here down here they're
not very active but relatively more
active than the traps so it's kind of
like all right like this is shitty side
dealt training if you want on Uber good
news your traps won't grow hardly at all
like okay is that really the idea
another thing is also reduction in
Central Drive there are ways and
techniques to do like for example if
you're doing lateral raises to a a small
range of motion but you're behind the
plane of your body it actually like
barely touches your traps at all in that
way but if you really like try your
traps will be activated in any way
because they are designed by Evolution
to work synergistically with your side
delts to do this okay and if you try to
turn them off while turning your side
delts on it is possible but it so much
reduces what's called your Central Drive
the amount of fucking oomph you put into
a lift that the motor units the parts of
the muscle and the nerves that innervate
them in the side delts that are the most
prone to growth
they're kind of saying a cigarette break
they don't even care they're not even on
so they won't really grow like if you're
not calling the big gums because you're
like oh gotta do my trap exercise or
side delts big but I don't want my traps
real big and I'm going to struggle oh no
I feel my traps engaging oh my God take
it easy well then your side belts are
taking it easy too relatively speaking
they're getting more work than your
traps but like absolutely they could be
getting this much with your traps this
much and you could just be jacked all
over so it's an interesting trade-off to
make in some uh in some respects next
problem
is traps cannot take over for the side
delts that's physically impossible
because the side delts go from your
shoulder to your actual arm bone here
they are the only muscle that is able to
do this part okay now the whole
retracting and elevating thing yes your
traps do that but your traps can't
actually if you just turned on your
traps to lift your elbow this is as far
as it would go this whole thing here
that's side belts so when people say
like oh I feel like my traps are taking
over no no they are contributing but the
side belts are as active as they ever
would be it's just that there's a lot of
trap coming along for the ride as well
and
just exactly to point number three
here's a problem you probably don't have
excessively large traps God damn it 99
out of 100 people that have ever asked
me on the fucking gram Dr Mike my traps
are too involved whatever I want less
trap activation for my side belts what
is the first thing I do or click on
their mom's fucking profile repeat that
shit motherfucker you don't even have
traps get out of my face you pencil like
motherfucker what is this a Harry Potter
look-alike contest you need traps and
side delts you need to isolate diddly
dick man unless you're Goldberg from WWE
back in the day one of my people that's
right what's up Jewish Family in any
case I used to consider myself one of
the toughest Jews in existence then I
realized the Mossad exists
exists the entire Israeli military most
other Jews definitely Goldberg because
he's super jacked in any case if you're
a Goldberg or Tom Hardy from Warrior or
some shit fine I get it more side dealt
with less traps but you're probably not
bad
and you could probably get really huge
side delts and traps you could just
train them with the exercises that work
the best for both
that's it so a lot of the people asking
this like I get it if you're a pro
bodybuilder you come up to Jared feather
and Dragon's Lair in Vegas and you're
like hey man I want anyone else to hear
this
but is there any way I can get my Cycles
bigger without me and my traps bigger
like Jared will be like yeah like here's
a few ways right but you're probably not
that person
I don't mean to get personal with you
you that's what you watching this or
listening to it
um You probably don't have this problem
I don't have this problem right you know
I'm saying you're boy allowed to hear
what these traps I could use bigger
everything right
so that is what it is how do we real
talk this how do we wrap this up
if you were worried about trap growth
really off balance in your Physique in
proportion to side delts you can be
concerned with choosing modifying
movements that reduce trap involvement I
just sort of clue you in if you get your
arms behind you and you do partials here
that's probably one of the better ways
to do it there's other people way way
more involved in this side the
biomechanist people just go look to go
ask them that question right go on the
YouTube type biomechanics traps doubts
whatever some shit will come up some of
it's crazy people saying stupid shit
you'll get a couple gems in there the
reason I haven't invested myself in
figuring out exercises that best train
the side elves without engaging traps as
much is because of this next point for
99 of us which is like who I'm talking
to
um no normal side adults trainings hit
the fucking side delts hard and they're
going to make them grow and it's going
to be great and then don't worry about
that it also hits the traps like when
I'm doing hack squats and I get a quad
pump of my life I don't turn in the
mirror and go oh fuck but it's hitting
my glutes oh no my glutes are going to
be too big what it even mean I don't
know if ever seen a person with traps
that are too big even Goldberg from WWE
whose traps touched his ears I was
always like God damn I gotta look like
that like is that really something
you're you're super averse to and by the
way because we have a maybe one or two
females in the audience
the girls being like Oh like I just want
to hit my side dolls without my traps
like again if you compete and figure
this is valid and I encourage you to go
seek out the advice that other than the
one I just gave of how to minimize trap
involvement Max my silence mom but if
you're just a girl trying to get jacked
there's a whole like oh I don't want
traps because they're masculine bitch
what about big ass side dolls you think
them shits is feminine if I got out of
here just get fucking jacked and if
you're with actual
and a woman that likes this fucking
female form under fucking Prime you know
little itty bitty traps gonna scare off
anyone and the people that do scare off
should be fucking scared off because get
out of here kid grow up are you ready to
date a real woman
like me oop I forgot to shave all of my
body here in any case here's the thing
there's a really cool neat
puzzle solution to this and here it is
you don't have to worry about the
stichotomy of traps too big dealts blah
blah
train the seidelves hard as fuck
they will grow
your traps will also grow but check this
out take all of your trap training and
just throw it away
two birds one stone
you hit the fucking doubts hard with
proper side dealt work and it gives you
just enough trap volume to get your
traps to grow a little bit but not too
much and then it's a self-solving
problem so it turns out you actually
probably don't need to be looking for
exercises that minimize trap involvement
on side dot work you just need to be
taking all the Trap work and throwing it
the fuck away out of your program
ta-da anyway
um
I'll see you guys next time uh before I
go look if for traps are too big and
it's just
worrying you all the time 1-800 traps
too big it's a hotline I'll probably
pick up the phone with one of my
associates got the video guy will do it
and we'll talk you through it Namaste
we're here with you all the way through
your terrible journey of excessively
large traps see you guys next time