previously at the house of hypertrophy
we saw the interference effect the idea
cardio kills gains is not as big as
people think updated analyzes failed to
find combining cardio with resistance
training impairs muscle and strength
gains in this video however we're going
to assess a thought that's probably
rarely crossed most people's minds could
cardio benefit long-term muscle
hypertrophy the scientific literature
indicates in certain cases it could
[Music]
a recent study from Canada recruited 14
untrained individuals one leg cycled
with these variables for three times per
week for six weeks the other leg in
these six weeks did nothing then in the
next 10 weeks both legs were trained
bilaterally with squats leg presses leg
extensions hamstring curls and car
phrases using these variables by the end
of these 10 weeks it was found slow and
fast Stitch fiber growth tended to be
superior for their leg that cycle for
for six weeks beforehand versus the leg
that didn't do anything in these first
six weeks therefore cycling for six
weeks before a 10-week resistance
training period increased their muscle
hypertrophy produced why the six weeks
of cycling produce significant increases
in capillary density and the researchers
found a correlation between these
capillary density increases and the
subsequent slow and fast Rich fiber
hypertrophy furthermore when the
researchers examine the high responding
and low responding legs the highest
responding legs had greater capillary
density versus the low responding legs
capillaries are tiny blood vessels that
deliver oxygen nutrients hormones and
other things to muscle fibers and this
study suggests capillaries may be quite
important for muscle hypertrophy
something a lot of people are probably
unaware of now like all studies this
study has limitations the subjects were
previously untrained and had an average
BMI falling into overweight range
furthermore biopsies were used to assess
fiber hypertrophy and as noted in
previous videos these have limitations
and are far from a perfect and clean
measurement but even with these
limitations in mind I wouldn't be so
quick to dismiss this study because
other supporting data exists
[Music]
the implication of the study is aerobic
training benefits muscle hypertrophy by
increasing capillary density indeed
other studies support the link between
capillary density and hypertrophy data
on younger individuals links
capillarization to satellite Cell
Activation and expansion events are
likely associated with recovery from
training and sustaining long-term muscle
hypertrophy a 2017 Canadian study in
older men found those with lower
capillary densities or lower far switch
fiber hypertrophy compared to those with
higher capillarization another 2019 USA
study found similar things in older
individuals those with lower capillary
densities or lower fiber hypertrophy
compared to those with higher
capillarization as noted capillaries are
tiny blood vessels that deliver oxygen
nutrients hormones and other things to
muscle fibers it's logical that
increasing capillary density benefits
recovery and supports the process of
growing muscle fibers link to this Greg
Knuckles from Stronger by science
provides a nice potential explanation as
muscle fibers grow all the stuff inside
the muscle fibers get further away on
average to avoid an intracellular energy
crisis it makes sense that fibers either
need to stop growing or experience an
increase in capillary density to allow
for further growth it's also worth
recognizing lifting weights is quite
aerobically demanding despite what it
may seem for example a 200 meter sprint
something considered very anaerobic
still involves a 29 contribution from
the aerobic system recovery between sets
performance on later sets in a session
and Recovery between sessions are going
to be relying on the Aerobic System to a
large degree so increased capillary
density May benefit all these things
besides capillaries other endurance
gains may also be useful for muscle
hypertrophy mitochondria are organelles
involved in generating energy for
various biochemical and physiological
processes fascinating a 2018 study from
the USA found those who experienced the
best hypertri responses tended to have
greater mitochondrial volume versus low
high virtual responders the researchers
speculated this may be because creating
the proteins that make muscles larger is
an energetically costly process and
mitochondria can Aid this process
furthermore in vitro Studies have
Associated mitochondrial volume and
function to cell growth also
mitochondria will play a role in
recovery between sets performance on
later sets in a session and Recovery
between sessions it's important to
mention I'm not saying maximizing
endurance adaptations is needed just
enhancing them to a degree may be
beneficial for long-term hypertrophy
[Music]
in the initial study the aerobic
training performed in the first six
weeks was far from Intense or demanding
I'm wondering if just performing this
concurrently with resistance training
still provides benefit indeed although
the overall literature finds no
compromised hypertrophy when performing
cardio and resistance training
concurrently there have been some
studies finding better hypertrophy with
concurrent cardio and resistance
training some of these studies also find
that slow twitch fiber hypertrophy is
enhanced when performing cardio and
resistance training concurrently so this
might also be a specific benefit of
additional cardio training it makes
selectively enhanced slow twitch fiber
hypertrophy these fibers are typically
harder to grow versus Fast switch fibers
therefore ignoring extreme circumstances
you're very highly trained to all your
performing extreme amounts of volume I
think it's very possible some
individuals may Express enhanced
hypertrophy with concurrent cardio and
resistance training as an alternate to
this you could aim to do something
similar to the initial study alternate
between periods of aerobic training and
resistance training many Fair weeks of
no resistance training will completely
reverse all your gains and make all your
previous resistance training a waste
this simply isn't true this 2013
Japanese study had one group trained for
24 weeks straight while another group
trained for six weeks and arrested for
three weeks across the full 24 weeks
after the 24th week chest triceps and
bench press strength gains were similar
between both groups we can see that
although the group lost strength and
size during their three week breaks
their games were quick to rebound upon
resuming training imagine during these
three weeks off they performed cardio
could this have benefited hypertrophy
furthermore as explored in a previous
video there are potential mechanisms by
which resistance training breaks could
reset various anabolic Pathways
potentially benefiting long-term
hypertrophy too
a third option as detailed by Greg
Knuckles is alternating between periods
of concurrent training and periods where
you only perform resistance training if
you're highly trained and or performing
very high resistance training volumes
it's fine if your rate of gains is
slower in the concurrent training period
your gains showing the resistance
training only period might be enhanced
thanks to the endurance gains from
concurrent training finally the data
assess throughout this video may also
allude to the beneficial effects of
higher reps higher reps can certainly be
great for building muscle and higher
reps better promote overall endurance
adaptations it might be speculated that
in the long term including higher reps
in your training could be beneficial for
hypertrophy thanks to the endurance
gains more data is needed to verify this
moreover if you're performing cardio
remember the local endurance games are
specific to the muscles involved so
unless a person performs a variety of
cardio that covers their upper and lower
body the muscle groups not trained with
cardio May benefit it from higher reps
in certain cases various lines of
scientific evidence suggest cardio May
benefit muscle hypertrophy it appears an
increase in capillary density
mitochondrial volume and a potentially
selective hypertrophy of flow twitch
fibers are candidates linking cardio to
better overall hypertrophy furthermore
Insurance adaptations May enhance
recovery between sets performance on
later sets in a session and Recovery
between sessions
I rarely accept sponsors at the house of
hypertrophy as I don't know or trust
many companies reaching out but I've
been in contact with Alpha progression a
truly unique and advanced fitness app
you can add your own program or use
their custom workout generator that
produces excellent programs you can
paradise reps and reserves and sets and
schedule deload weeks the custom
workouts can still be edited to your
liking workouts can be tracked live and
the app generates solid progression
recommendations across sessions it has a
clean design with a database of more
than 450 exercises with great text and
video tutorials aesthetic graphs can
track virtually any measure across time
like bench press strength number of
workouts a week body weight and even set
numbers per muscle group and
circumference measures of body regions
the link in the comments and description
takes you to the app and by using this
link you'll have two weeks free of all
its features plus 20 off a yearly or
monthly subscription if you do purchase
the app House of hypertrophy will get 50
so this sincerely helped support these
free videos thank you finally I have a
free Ultimate Guide to bench pressing
ebook that covers these areas feel free
to get it in the link in the comments
and description
[Music]