workout carbs these are carbs you take
during and finish right after your
workout that to some small extent
prevent muscle breakdown to a pretty
meaningful extent make 45 minute hour
hour and 15 and longer workouts make the
ends of those workouts higher intensity
than they would be and then much more
productive and also these supplements
can maximize the utilization of the
protein you're also consuming around the
workout window so these carbs include
things like dextrose powder if you know
you go on Amazon and buy 15 pounds of
that for like a dollar or you can
go and get some Gatorade or Power Aid
whether it's a shake or a powder doesn't
matter these carbs are best paired with
a protein shake so if you ever see me
out in the world some 24-Hour Fitness in
California or some you're like is
that Dr Mike yeah nobody else looks like
that the happen to that guy's head
you're going to notice that very often I
have a power RoR Gatorade or two and I
have a protein shake with me and I sip
that between sets that handles me super
well