hey folks it's dr mike for renaissance
periodization and today's weekly tip
is that sugar
is fine
it's 100 fine for you to eat sugar but
hold on a second sugar is supposed to be
bad for you so you need to reduce it you
got to cut that sugar out if you have
any fitness followers or friends in the
social media and you post any beverage
or any food containing sugar at least
one it's like a rule of the universe one
at least one probably like 900 people
are going to go on there and then they
came in you you watching your sugar
content that's like a nice one usually
people go straight to the conspiracy
we're like i see big sugar has bought
you out chill all of you influencers are
shills i'm still waiting for my show
paycheck god dammit i haven't seen that
shit in years ever here's the thing
we have a huge butt before you jump off
the sugar bandwagon here
there is no link
between sugar and weight gain in
calorie-controlled diets when diets are
controlled for calories sugar doesn't
magically make you put on weight they
can feed you and have in laboratory
settings a diet of the majority of the
diet of sugar some essential fats some
essential amount of protein and people
lose essentially the identical amount of
weight and fat and get healthy just like
they would with any other macronutrient
as long as the basic amount of fats and
carbs and proteins is set in stone first
of all second of all
people talk about sugar like it's the
devil and they're usually forgetting
that fructose is a sugar so one thing
they'll say is like sugar spike your
insulin like uh-huh and how glycemic is
fructose and they don't know they're
just like very look it up they look it
up fructose is unbelievably low gi an
orange has a glycemic index of like 30.
that is substantially slower digesting
than whole grain pasta brown rice
oatmeal and sweet potatoes the same
people that are eat sweet potatoes would
be like keep the blood sugar fucking
normal bro i don't want fucking diabetes
they look at a fruit like an orange
which is slower digesting sore apples
and sore pears by the way in almost
every case and they'll go what do you do
crazy like no you're crazy dummy
next point
there is no link between sugar
consumption and health as long as
calories are not excessive you're
meeting your protein and fat needs and
the diet is mostly healthy unprocessed
foods that's why like if you see
marathon runners who are like just like
at a dinner party and you can see their
abs through their shirt and their faces
sunken in willem dafoe style and they're
having like an orange juice i'm not
exactly running over there to swap the
shit out of their hands and be like
you're gonna get diabetes it's not a
thing it's not a problem sugar is not a
poison what is a little poisonous is
when you layer in super tasty sugars
super tasty fats super tasty starches
and a bunch of spices and salt and you
make that into junk food and even that's
not unhealthy for you it's the fact that
junk food is so tasty that people tend
to overeat it they overeat their
calories then they gain weight and then
they get all the bad things but it's not
the sugar per se not nearly at all not
even close so
if sugary foods make you eat more and
it's usually not gonna be sugary it's
gonna be junk foods like
if they make you overeat chronically eat
fewer of them or switch to sugary foods
that don't make you overeat i never met
a motherfucker in my life who's like
yeah man had to fucking i can't even say
this without joking
without laughing hey man fucking oranges
man too many too many oranges and
blowing up
waistlines all out of control too many
apple slices
what
that doesn't happen right too many
twinkies for sure but again that's sugar
fat an amazing taste layered into
something you just keep eating so as if
sugary foods really tick you off fine
don't eat them just shut up about
telling other people not to eat them and
there may be a lot of sugar foods like
fresh fruits that you can eat up to your
ears and not have a problem with next is
if you're eating too little protein and
too little fat uh
you know
then
uh
maybe you can reduce your sugary intake
because you're like eating so many
fruits you just reduce your fruit intake
and raise your proteins fats to
accommodate and also like if you're
eating a bunch of fruit snacks and
juices your fiber might be low so again
if you stick to mostly healthy sources a
bit of sugar here tons of sugar in the
healthy sources is totally fine mostly
unprocessed stuff and then sugar added
to that is totally fine as long as you
don't go over your calories otherwise
sugar away
eat all the sugar you want as long as
you're eating your proteins carbs fats
fiber stuff like that as long as most of
your diet is healthy as long as sugar
doesn't make you gain a ton of weight
magic which almost certainly doesn't
eat up all the sugar you like fresh
fruits are amazing they're super healthy
i'm not bought by big fruit i would
gladly be a lobbyist for big fruit they
just i look at my telephone and they
haven't called yet and
some candy
and like work out window sugar subs like
gatorade and stuff they're totally fine
like i've been to gyms a bunch drinking
a gatorade people like really sugar i'm
like yeah sugar learn biochemistry and
then you go
and i have the fangs what is that noise
that vampires make it's like blue
is it blood is that what they're saying
jared feather and i had a debate that
lasted one hour it was friendly
interaction
where uh we were trying to look up what
it is they said and youtube videos and
we never found an answer do you know
what vampires say please let us know in
the comments see you next week