hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
fertilization welcome back last week we
had simple ways to improve your bench
but clearly that didn't work for you
because you're back next week this week
for the advanced stuff let's get into
advanced periodization to increase your
bench now I will say
I would go back if you haven't and watch
the simple tips video just to make sure
your green check boxing all the stuff
because if the simple stuff hasn't been
done yet a lot of times the advanced
stuff doesn't work all that well
or it's just put another way it's much
easier to do the simple stuff and get
really big fixes if you've exhausted the
simple tricks and they don't work
anymore
or if you want to apply the simple tips
in a more structured manner this is the
video for us I would say watch that
video first benefits as you learn more
stuff and also gives me more Lamborghini
money and then we can all be on the same
page so
the sequence to improving your bench
press
is almost identical to that for
improving your Squat and it will be
almost identical for future weeks to
improving your deadlift and it is as
followers
you find the limiting factors in your
bench press
you do hypertrophy work to increase the
ability of those limiting factors the
smaller muscles that are pulling your
weight so to speak
then you do a strength phase then you do
a peeking phase you test your max great
success your max is improved back to the
drawing board and repeat the process
so
limiting factors
questions for you at home to figure out
what to work on for your bench
do you miss your benches at the chest or
very close to the chest hold that
thought
do you miss the benches at just a bit
above the chest where you would stop a
Spoto press for example
Google that show
or third do you miss your bench halfway
up or higher anywhere here or closer to
lockout
usually you'll be missing benches most
of them in just one specific area
I mean it's not like you missed some
benches at the chest and some benches
almost at lockout most people
individuals at any one time in their
training career will typically miss the
vast fraction of their benches at one
and not the other two of those Heights
so that's a big deal in addition to that
if you don't train to failure all the
time or if you haven't you know flubbed
anyone or M attempts where the bench
gets disproportionately harder for you
works the same so instead of do you miss
your benches at the chest are very close
is it that at the very bottom it's
really tough and then as you push out it
gets much easier or is it pretty easy at
the bottom then you hit a Slowdown of
the low Point Midway and then it's
easier or is it one of these things that
it's not terrible from the bottom but
then you get up to close to lock out and
you have a really really hard time
based on where the difficulty is you
apply the same logic as is based on
where the failure point is same same now
here's the thing the likely causes at
least the possible causes which we're
going to attack here are as follows if
you're missing your bench at the chest
or you know just lower down than that
normal sticking point of two or three
inches up
chest size and strength is probably a
limiting factor for you and if you had a
bigger stronger chest you could probably
miss your benches at another place but
miss them at higher weights you'd be
stronger
if you miss your benches just a little
bit above the chest a couple inches
above the chest that's where
biomechanically you should be missing
benches if you're built like the average
person so
your overall pushing strength of the
limiting factor which means we can steer
a program to attend to that and if you
are in a situation where you're missing
your benches halfway up past the Midway
point or higher then tricep strength is
more likely to be something that you are
missing out on and then increasing the
size of strength of your triceps is
probably priority number one so for
yourself figure out which one of these
is closest to your situation and then go
from there
now
after that
you figure out let's say oh chest is
what is really limiting me on bench
because I fail at very low position in
my bench press
you're going to design a program
that trains limiting factor movements
and muscles first or early in the
program and slightly more often so
you're going to be doing chest work
early in your program and a lot of chest
work throughout the week for example
you will still fit in tricep work and
overall pressing work you'll still do
the rest of your program but just less
because if you do more of one thing you
usually have to do less of another
because your recovery ability is finite
and what you're going to do is you're
going to construct these muscle Cycles
these training programs to put some
fucking meat on your chest or triceps or
overall whatever it is that you were
sort of diagnosed with in that first
part
and you're going to increase the size of
those muscles preferentially over
multiple muscle cycles of training
mostly in the 5 to 10 repetition range
in a variety of exercises that Target
those muscle groups
that's going to be sweet
you're going to have much bigger and
actually much stronger ability to press
then you're going to enter a strength
phase because you want to express
yourself optimally and actually make the
muscle stronger as well as bigger
you're going to switch around at that
point to doing much more bench pressing
first because strength phase it's time
to get stronger on the bench and that
means you need to practice fresh with
the bench press more often the actual
competition lift
you're going to keep that limiting
factor training and keep it hard still
plenty of intensity still plenty of
volume not as much as before but you're
still going to gain lots of strength in
the chest specifically or the triceps
specifically or all around
you're still going to gain even a little
bit of size
but for the most part you're going to be
doing this three to six rep range basic
strength for the presses and for some of
the assistance work like flies which you
can't go that heavy it's not super safe
then you do in the sets of five to eight
right in that rep range once you get
done with the strength phase you will
get into a peeking phase
where you have heavy core work of your
actual lifts and you have some accessory
volume
after a few weeks your accessory volume
declines and falls off after a few more
weeks your core volume starts to decline
that's called a taper
it reduces fatigue while your Fitness
stays constant or actually goes up a
little bit
Fitness minus fatigue is preparedness
your abilities go up you do a monitor
Max test and voila your bench has
improved right so as a sample program
let's just say you miss benches like at
the bottom or very close to the bottom
of the chest and we think ooh your pecs
could be bigger and stronger and that
would really help you in the bench press
all right
so here's the thing how would we do this
by the way another test just a random
little tidbit for you guys another test
of if it's your chest or your triceps
limiting factor is find out what people
of your relative strength typically do
for a close grip bench full range of
motion and for regular bench and see
where your close grip is relative to
your regular if your close grip sucks
compared to your regular then your chest
is not a limiting factor most likely
because your triceps are relatively
weaker if your close grip is
outlandishly higher than average but
your bench press itself isn't that great
it's your packs that are product Liberty
factors that's another interesting way
to corroborate that and find that out
but let's say you say you conclude okay
I need I need more chess stuff it's the
chest that's limiting factor your
hypertrophy mesocycles could look
something like this three days of press
training
day one you do a lot of sets of five to
seven reps on the heavier end of the
hypertrophy range
in wide grip presses do a little bit of
tricep work after remember triceps are
on the back burner this entire time
sets of eight to ten on day two in wide
grip incline and flat flies more PEC
work just a bit of a different angle for
variation a little bit of triceps after
day three
you're gonna do a technique slash
recovery day
Lots or not lots a few sets of three to
six repetitions in the competition bench
with a pause keeping those motor
patterns fresh such a really good at
benching itself you never forget how to
bench a really good technique pause at
bottom that's it leave the gym Monday
Wednesday Friday for example by next
Monday because that Friday was super
easy you'll be really healed and be able
to get a lot out of that day one
day two you'll still be a little bit
messed up from day one a little bit
tired but notice the repetition ranges
are higher and the movements are
different so it might enter not
interfere with your workout a ton
that's a really good thing in in Monday
Wednesday Friday is a great way to do
this
also Monday Thursday Saturday is a great
way to do this because Saturday if you
do the really light benches for a few
sets of three to six reps
it's not a big deal and you'll recover
no problem by Monday so that's another
way to conceive it that way Monday to
Thursday gives you more time to recover
from those Mega workouts
strength mezzo could look something like
this the first mesocycle which is a
little bit of a lighter meso the second
measure will be heavier
day one is you start with five to six
sets in the wide grip press we're still
prioritizing the chest specific
movements first the first in the week
day two of some tricep work after that
no big deal day two five to six
repetition range sets in the competition
bench now getting stronger at the very
thing you want
sets of five to eight reps and dumbbell
flies after still kicking it to the
chest like we promised a little bit of
triceps day three same as always light
work with a competition bench sets a
three to six maybe three to five sets of
three to six reps at like fifty percent
of 100 Max easy work technique only gets
you that great recovery great Technical
Training All Good Things sets up another
excellent week of pressing mark
mesocycle two of your strengths we're
getting ready for peaking is going to
look a little bit different day one is
sets of three to four in the paused
competition bench now we have fully
transitioned to being like okay this is
specific training for that movement
and it's your first time going really
heavy in that movement as well in quite
some time a little bit of tricep work
after that day two it's all right there
sets of five to six in the wide grip
bench
still maintaining that wide grip ability
to increase our chest strength and some
sets of wide grip incline bench also
sets of five to six and all of a sudden
you're pressing is as much better
but we're doing more core pressing and
less flies and stuff like that really
transferring our work into compound
pushing
day three same as it was this entire
program easy work sets of three to six
competition bench
lastly peaking mezzo
day one would be sets of singles and
doubles in your actual bench stuff very
easy tricep work after
competition benching
day two sets a three to four with a
pause competition benching slightly more
volume a bit more of a strength stimulus
in that peaking paradigm and a bit of
wide grip benching a sets of five to
eight and a little tricep work after
right still we know chest is a mini
Factor we're still trying to bang that
out as close to the peak as we can
now after a few weeks about two weeks
you pull that wide grip work all
together you pull it out of the program
so that your body begins to heal much
faster than it was being stimulated
your Fitness no longer goes up it stays
flat but your fatigue starts to fall and
a week or two after that you start to
reduce the volume on actual bench press
lifts
you do a taper a little deload at the
end try your max it'll almost certainly
be better the real core here is
to pick good movements that fit your
needs if your chest is weak pick the
chest movements and just add five pounds
to them every week
try to maintain those reps where they
are when you get tired deload repeat
with this Paradigm and this structure
this is my best guess at how to increase
your bench and if it doesn't work just
throw something at the stupid fucking TV
if you watch me on your television of
course if you're watching me on your
cell phone just crush the thing but
hopefully you're in a Subway so someone
sees that and they're like and you're
like don't worry I'd never do this to a
human or all of them at once
that's always convincing folks see you
next week for more insights probably on
deadlifting yeah if I had to guess peace