[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to perform the
sumo deadlift with perfect technique now
I'm gonna be splitting the conventional
and sumo deadlift up into two separate
videos however as you'll see the
movement pattern and muscle activation
pattern for both are actually quite
similar according to data from Escamilla
and cola wiki sumo deadlifts are harder
on your quads and conventional deadlifts
are harder on your spinal erectors and
now the main technical difference
between the sumo and conventional
deadlift is that with sumo your hands
are gonna be inside your legs
conventional your hands are outside of
your legs I think that whether you
decide to pull sumo or conventional
should be based on what lift feels most
comfortable to you or what lift you're
stronger with but with that said I would
say to really maximize on your strength
and development it might be smart to
periodically switch between conventional
and sumo deadlift there just to ensure
that you're mastering both basic
movement patterns and sumo may feel a
little bit awkward at first but very
well could end up being better suited
for your Anatomy in the long run so
Before we jump into training technique
here let's take a quick look at what
muscles we're going to be targeting
first now similar to the squat the
deadlift trains simultaneous hip
extension or the hips straighten out on
the way up and knee extension where the
knees straighten out however the amount
of hip extension far outweighs the
amount of knee extension in the deadlift
whereas the squat is much more of an e
dominant lift the hip extension
component is going to be handled
primarily by the glutes and hamstrings
and the extension component is going to
be handled by the quadriceps and there
also be a strong isometric spinal
extension contraction which will be
handled by the spinal erectors that run
all the way up the back there are also
several other isometric stabilizing
contractions on the deadlift around the
shoulders and the scapula meaning the
lats and traps will be quite active on
this movement as well but despite the
fact that the muscles of the back will
play an important stabilizing role on
the deadlift I still try to think of it
as a sort of lower body exercise I
usually program it on leg days with the
glutes and hamstrings quads and spinal
erectors being the knee
muscular targets of the deadlift now
because the deadlift involves multiple
joints and large muscle masses
it's very conducive to progressive
overload it should be trained with
relatively heavy weight in a low rep
zone usually no higher than 5 to 10 reps
if your main goal is hypertrophy and 1
to 5 reps if your main goal is strength
and based on my own coaching experience
I would say the deadlift is much more
physically and mentally demanding than
the squat so I'd recommend programming
it in no more than once or twice per
week even in advance to trainees ok
starting from the bottom up you want to
lift in a flat sole shoe like Chuck
Taylors or deadlifts slippers you want
to use high socks to avoid shin scrapes
and optionally you can use a 10
millimeter lever belt I'm just gonna
increase torso rigidity and force
transfer as you pull you want to
approach the bar and stand where your
shins are about half an inch behind the
bar with the bar roughly centered over
the tongue of your shoes when you look
down and take a sumo stance by moving
your feet as far laterally as they can
go while still having your heels in line
with your knees once you get into the
starting position you may need to work
your way out to full sumo stance first
transitioning from a conventional stance
to a semi sumo stance or the hands are
just inside of the legs and then
gradually make your way out to a full
sumo stance over the next few weeks you
may also need to do some stretching and
foam rolling on your inner thighs and
growing to build up proper flexibility
and mobility to get into the wider
stance safely and as you go wider you're
gonna want to increase the amount of
foot flare meaning that in full sumo
your toes should be pointing toward the
front end of the pleats so flared out by
about 30 to 40 degrees get your hands
down to the bar you want to think of
doing a stiff leg deadlift where you're
pushing your hips back rather than just
squatting down to grab the bar and once
you can no longer hinge your hips back
any further want to push your knees
slightly forward and out in the
direction of your toes as your hips drop
down the rest of the way until you can
grab the bar now generally speaking you
want to grab the bar with your arms
hanging straight down so right at
shoulder width however with sumo some
lifters prefer a slightly wider grip so
that when you lock out your hands aren't
hitting up against your quads but for me
personally I'm stronger with the
shoulder width grip and I can
that out just fine now when it comes to
the grip itself you do have a few
options I would say the most common is
the alternator over/under grip with one
palm facing up and one palm facing down
and you will be able to move much more
weight with this grip but to prevent
muscle imbalances you might want to
switch up which hand is over in which
hand is under from time to time there
also may be an increased injury risk if
it causes you to twist at the top a
little bit but I've never had this
problem personally you know anecdotally
I have heard that bicep tendon tears are
more common on the underhand side I
don't think I've ever actually seen one
in my own experience and this is the
grip that I personally use but you do
have a few other options the double
overhand grip is probably the safest
that most people just will end up being
limited by their grip strength using it
you know your deadlift strength may
never get to its full potential now one
solution is to just use a hook grip or
your wedge your thumb between the bar
and your fingers however from experience
I can say this grip has a pretty painful
adjustment period which just wasn't
worth it for me now you can also use
straps which allow for an easy double
overhand grip however I would recommend
doing at least one heavy working set per
workout without straps so your grip
strength doesn't start to lag behind and
in this video I'm going to be using the
alternate grip so just be aware of the
risks and consider those other options
as well so you want to dig the bar into
the base of your hand really driving
your pinky into the bar which will
prevent grip fatigue and once your grip
is set you want to pack your lats by
thinking about pulling the bar in close
to you which is gonna prevent the bar
from drifting out in front of you as you
lift now at this point you want to pull
your lower back into a neutral position
creating a stretching your hamstrings
and you'll want to maintain this flat
lower back position throughout the rest
of the lift a little bit of thoracic or
upper back rounding is more acceptable
and less dangerous however if you pull
with a slightly rounded thoracic spine
just don't allow it to round further
throughout the lift so without dropping
your hips take a breath and deep into
your gut as you lean your body weight
slightly in front of the bar in this
position you should be able to draw a
perfectly straight line connecting your
scapula the middle of the bar in the
middle of your foot now at this point
you can initiate the pull by pulling the
slack out of the bar by applying a small
amount of upward tension
to the bar so that it rises up that one
millimeter or so and softly comes up
against the inside of the plate hole
before the plates actually leave the
floor and I'd say this is actually a
crucial step that many inexperienced
lifters amiss or just don't know about
you don't want to what power lifters
would call grip and rip the bar meaning
you just grab the bar and immediately
yank it up off the ground with all your
might because you might come up solid
against the weight of the plates before
they actually leave the ground making
the pole more difficult depleting your
energy early on and potentially throwing
you out of position so once you pulled
the slack out of the bar you want to
lift the weight off the floor with
explosive power leading with your chest
on the way up and to finish out the lift
focus on mainly driving your hips
forward now you can also think about
driving your feet into the floor because
you thrust your hips forward however
focusing too much on driving your feet
down can turn the deadlift into too much
of a squat it can cause the hips to
shoot up and many lifters so you really
do want to think about the deadlift as a
hip hinge or you're merely driving the
hips forward while keeping the chest up
and throw out the concentric you want to
make sure you're holding three isometric
contractions one in your lumbar spine
which is gonna prevent your lower back
from rounding another in your shoulder
blades so keep your shoulder blades
retracted and a third at your shoulder
where you want to be pulling the bar in
tight to your legs so when viewed from
the side the bar should be moving up in
a perfectly straight line centered over
the middle of the foot and it should be
dragging straight up against your shins
so to finish the lift you just need to
lock out your knees by straightening
your legs lock out your hips by
squeezing your glutes and then lock up
your shoulders by simply lifting your
chest up you don't need to overdo the
lockout by leaning your torso
excessively backwards hyperextending
your lower back or pointlessly squeezing
your shoulder blades together or
shrugging the weight up now when it
comes to the negative many powerlifting
coaches will insist that the deadlift is
a concentric only lift meaning that on
the negative you should essentially just
let the bar fall down I'm guiding it
with your hands so it lands in the right
position for the next rep but without
actively resisting the weight on the way
down now like you should do with pretty
much every other exercise actively
resisting
negative is just gonna make the deadlift
even harder to recover from during the
session itself and then in the days
following lifting but with that said I
would say that if you are new to the
deadlift or we learning how to deadlift
properly I think it is much more
important that you make sure each and
every rep is as consistent as possible
so I'd recommend controlling the
negative having it last for about one
second or so so that you can begin the
next rep with perfect control without
risking losing your position but I would
say regardless of the eccentric tempo
you want to lower the weight down by
setting your hips back first just like
you would in a stiff leg deadlift until
the way it is just about to clear your
knees and then you can allow your knees
to bend and let the bar hit the ground
finishing the rep in a perfectly
straight line and if you don't set your
hips back at the top first and initiate
the negative by bending the knees first
chances are that you'll have to move the
bar forward to avoid hitting your knees
on the way down which is going to throw
off your starting position and waste a
bunch of energy so you want to let the
plates come to a full and complete reset
on the ground after each rep so don't
bounce the plates off the ground and
then begin the pole again by taking a
deep breath in pulling the slack out of
the bar driving your hips forward
locking the bar out and setting your
hips back following the bar back down in
a perfectly straight line so guys
because the deadlift is such a technical
lift there are so many errors here often
with pretty complex solutions so what
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna follow up here
next Tuesday with the conventional
deadlift technique and then the next
Tuesday after that I'm gonna do all of
the form errors on both variations
unless you guys can stay tuned for that
before we go I want to say that for the
launch of this video I'm going to be
offering my fundamentals hypertrophy
program and push-pull legs intermediate
to advanced programs at 25% off each for
the next week so you can grab both of
those at Jeff nipper comm for $29.99 and
you can learn a little bit more about
them put some information up here or we
can read more at the first couple of
links down there in the description now
so thank you guys so much for watching
please don't forget to leave me a like
if you enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
episode