[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpe diet app is here to help it creates
a diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
Wolcott
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
folks were back welcome back to the
weekly webinar dr. James Hoffman dr.
Mike Ezra tell the famous one from
Facebook as you all know here to answer
your questions Mike we're ready to roll
James just glad to be here with you
hosting another episode of weekly
webinar somebody on one of the youtubes
somebody was like is this available as a
podcast I'm like what's the difference
it's a YouTube video like you know what
I mean like people love their podcast I
like to upload them download them load
them up so to speak I know but it's like
the same as if you get like if you watch
it on YouTube or if you have a podcast
app or what I don't know yeah I think
like so one thing that I sort of see
were coming from is like let's say I
have a long flight you can actually
catch a podcasts for a flight but you
can't do that with YouTube videos I
thought you could download YouTube
videos somehow you can then that person
is fucking stupid I'm stupid cuz I don't
know but anyways yes we actually got a
pretty good good list of questions for
you guys let's get into it all right all
right
James Mendenhall says James calling me
out on my name just for that I have a
whole slew of mini cut questions for you
he's getting me back for that one yeah I
says for my last load I started the week
with my normal Monday and Tuesday
training then took the next five days
off and felt great head into the next
week generally you two seem to say
autoregulation
is the way to go so assuming if
everything feels good keep doing it till
i knee the sixth or seventh day she's
talking about the d loads specifically
yeah he's basically saying he's only d
loading half the week and just taking
the other half week off and he
interprets that things are going well as
autoregulation
yeah so I mean that's that's fine I like
I wouldn't say that that's a bad thing
but you also have to weigh the
cost-benefit so like what do you lose by
taking those two extra days and just
being like really really recovered
before starting your next mezzo you're
missing out on my two days of training
and you're getting a lot of security and
longevity for the next several months of
training so
it's definitely an okay way to do it but
you're gonna have like what you don't
want to do is say like I had a oh my one
day where I felt really great and that
means I'm gonna go right into training
you want to have a couple great days in
a row before you really move on to the
next one that would be my suggestion for
my next deal or I would like to add in
cardio I was hoping that I could do
non-load-bearing cardio like bike a row
machine and still have to kind of still
have the cardio kind of hard while still
giving the joints a break and you can
that will work to give the joints a
break but the rest of your systemic
fatigue and your muscle sensitivity to
growth may be hampered by cardio so it's
nothing wrong with cardio dealer I would
just say you know the usual amount of
Carter you do your accumulation phase
the DLO cardio should be cut
significantly so maybe half of it
I do Jiu Jitsu during my DLO that's what
I usually do less rolls or easier rolls
or usually some combination of both and
I'll sometimes fewer sessions so just
don't make the cardio don't just change
the cardio modality from load-bearing to
non load-bearing and do the same or more
of it as far as calorie burn is
concerned I would say to you last James
yeah and just for a reference point I'm
gonna highlight this since I'm screen
sharing right here's where the thought
process kind of goes wrong I would like
to add I think during kilos right if
anything you should be reducing
something now here's where we can play
devil's advocate right whereas if you're
thinking you'd like to use those cardio
modalities as your standard cardio for
the next several mesocycles of training
can you introduce it during addy load
sure that's fine but you shouldn't be
adding more cardio than what you were
already doing if anything you should be
doing less so you can make a switcheroo
and say like I'm just gonna do some low
intensity like cycling or you know row
machine just to familiarize myself with
the movement and the modality so that I
can train it in the weeks to come but I
would not you know go in with the
thought process I'm gonna add like more
cardio during my dealer that's probably
an incorrect strategy more often than
not yeah another devil's advocate there
is maybe he means add in cardio to addy
load where he usually wouldn't have it
in but he has it during his accumulation
so another way to say that wasn't
conserve cardio from accumulation to you
I sure hope that's what he means
James Mendenhall if you mean
that a D and cardio like James took it
to me dad I don't do that yeah yeah all
right a man that exclusively uses his
brilliant mind to penetrate the computer
systems of various governments and
organizations
Daniel hacker okay he loves penetrating
folks that's his job
you need your opinion I've been rolling
with dumbbell split squats for a long
time and would like your advice and if
it's time for me to switch we're gonna
keep it in background I trained the move
for three cantos had three weeks of
active wrestling phase where I did it in
a lower rep range and much less volume
and also had it in this previous math
puzzle was totaling 18 weeks or
something move does not feel stale check
mark one actually have been progressing
quite nicely so he finds any chance for
whatever I'm from 60s for similar erupts
good great I don't know if I should keep
it in for one more meso or just switch
it out whilst the going is still good so
I'll do this answer right now if you are
not feeling stay on a progressing quite
nicely the only other thing we need to
know about this fundamentally is does it
nag anything is there an injury
impending and let's see he says I would
hate to be in a situation where I think
it's good but now a couple weeks and my
accumulation I shit the bed it gets
stale and I'm stuck or atmospheres or
stainless doesn't get your stock
stainless just you advise you at least a
mezzo be like as embracing or gonna
still work so don't just stop working
they just work incrementally less and
less and less and especially if your
first check marks are good then really I
don't think you have anything to worry
about
305 mother's a long time to keep the
same move in not necessarily like some
moves you can keep it much longer really
is moved to move my doing the same
average reps and slightly more sets but
man I still feel like I have a PR me
it's very good I think get the 80s for
the same volume accumulation shoot my
shot or Bank the roof review progress so
remember we have a checklist and this is
coming out of the to be released this
year book but we've already spoke about
it multiple times on our B+ is a very
simple checklist
check us everyone is a move feeling as
psychologically or physically stale
checklist number two is your progress on
the move continuing or has it stalled
checklist number three is irritating
anything like arch and although really
bothered me on this
professor for your example here on the
split squats you know is your knee
bothering you is your hip is the your
grip bothering you shoulders or
something like that if the answer to all
those is in the affirmative that is to
say the move doesn't feel stale you're
having progress and you're not really
hurt there's James and I can speak till
we're blue in the face about proactive
variation which we do and we will in the
book but if you really should test us
and push us if all three check marks are
there James and I really can't tell you
to stop doing the move and we would have
to honor our own scientific knowledge
understanding and saying look
fundamentally it's probably good idea
now if everything's a real real good
idea and everything's going super great
but you know this is a move that
eventually will cause you problems
because you've done it for too long
before and you know the goings been good
before and then all of a sudden it
causes you injury or something like that
from overuse then you might be able to
sort of kind of move off and replace it
or if a move is something like not
appropriate for circle strength phase or
something like that like sometimes
holding dumbbells makes no goddamn sense
when you're trying to use that's a five
because you're opposed first but outside
of most of those very special scenarios
fundamentally if your check marking two
of these things that's usually fine
three for the love of God there's no
debate keeping it in is old early
hundred percent fine now just real quick
before James plays cleanup on this um
just because you're getting three check
marks on a move doesn't mean you have to
keep it it you can't change it but
keeping it in is absolutely crystal
clear a good idea James yeah and I think
that was a great answer and the only
really thing I would add is sometimes
like you want to proactively use
variation after you've kind of hit the
peak and are moving into diminishing
returns on a movement right so you're
still making returns they're just
getting diminishing over time compared
to like when you are really maxing out
that movement making huge amounts of
progress sorry oh my god choked on my
own spit Tom James sorry can I put into
super later points real quick yeah that
works for progress it also works for
stainless they move to not stale yet but
you're not super excited about anymore
so you can't say it's sale but it's not
amazing and also for injury your knees
don't hurt yet but they're starting to
feel kind of like oh that was these
right it's like you know next puzzle
they're gonna hurt that's when you use
proactive variation not when your
everything is hunky do or you know that
better stop now like but I think is
great
so it's kind of a counterintuitive
things so sometimes you actually use
proactive variation when the gittin has
been good right where it's like this
seems to have been working and I seem to
be otherwise fine that's sometimes a
good time to come around to the thought
of what I've probably milked this to the
best of my ability even though I'm still
making gains and maybe not as good maybe
it's time to swap switch it out and that
so the goal is to never get to the point
of plateauing or stillness you want to
get it happens and if you know there's
no perfect world where you can always
prevent that but using the proactive
variation can kind of help you skirt
that and many times so it would be a
good I would say at this point like you
don't have to change it but also
consider like it might not be a bad time
to switch it out to depending on what
you want to do proactive variation
though is as James not just implied but
stated you got to have a feel for like
okay maybe that XML wasn't gonna go well
and a lot of people say how do I do that
that's just something with comes was
training wisdom is something in
beginners will never understand
intermediate so if we didn't understand
the advance we'll start to know well you
know Daniel you said that you're totally
good to go for another PR you really
feel it comin dude fucking knock it out
do another mezzo where you will use
proactive aeration in the case of the
performance check mark is you know you
hit PRS in this last message look fuck
you had to move heaven and earth to do
it and like maybe it's a cutting phase
so you know that's just not coming
around or even if it's a masking phase
wreck man that took everything for me to
hit PRS and sometimes do you think
you'll fit PR is next meso you're like I
don't know then maybe pro activist is
fine right and frankly I think PRS is a
good time to think about using the
variation like if you hit a huge PR and
something assuming it's not like week
two or at the end of the first mezzo
like if you're like two months in and
you hit a PR that actually might be a
good time to think about moving on to
something else because usually PRS take
a lot out of you too and even if you
don't feel like they did so that's
that's another good kind of proxy
estimate place you can use Conor Gann
says hey docks just to clarify for my
well last week I meant lectures on here
not gear oh that's right we were like
what and I'll avoid further questions on
many cuts of genes and you have about to
have yes thank you anyway my question
this week
sweet if he says regarding Minicon
anyway my question this week is
regarding getting as close to optimal as
I can with the time I have currently I
have four days to where I can spend
sixty to seventy-five minutes in gym and
get most of my needed work done however
I've been implementing many sessions on
my house with dumbbells and resistance
bands for laggy muscles to get them to
MRV do you guys have any tips on this is
there a minimum threshold per session
volume for instance sometimes in the
morning before work I'll do one set each
of biceps side and rear delts thank you
again for your contacts great I think
the one set thing works and it will
cause your bust growth I would bet on
something more like two to three sets
basically we want you to be able to
checklist something like this did you
get somewhat of a pump did you feel a
lot of tension and disruption in the
target muscle and does that hang in for
at least some hours afterwards like if
you can leave a workout feeling exactly
as great as you did coming in in the
local musculature you can't tell your
biceps have been trained it's unlikely
that you're getting full expression and
possibly you just under your threshold
for moving much of anything as an
advanced lifter so these workouts have
to kick you in the ball so if you have
only time for three sets maybe one day
you can do three sets of biceps and then
another day you can do three sets of
side notes as opposed to splitting that
all up so much that you're really just
kind of warming up now another quick
recommendation I do have for you is if
you're only training four days a week
especially for the major muscle groups I
would recommend you to train closer to
failure then we normally recommend maybe
start mesocycles and one or two reps in
reserve and quickly get into one rep
zero reps so on and so forth because you
are short on time cumulative fatigue is
not a big problem for you because you
don't have the volume in your program to
really make it a problem what is a
problem with you is an under under
stimulative situation so smash smash
smash that fucking close to failure
training James and I have program for
many clients where they have two days to
lift they do everything basically to
failure cuz you what the fuck you do
gnar ar4 you're never gonna accumulate
any fatigue anyway you got to get
everything you can at every set so just
trade a little bit harder and I think
you could make up some of that lag of
time James yeah and I think as far as
the home workouts go try and get that up
to I would say closer to three sets each
right and if you have to just like
superset your way through it and go to
failure as Mike suggested are very close
to failure that would be perfectly fine
I think like doing the one set like you
could probably can stimulate growth but
usually when we're talking about like
minimum effective volume we say minimum
effective meaning like the least amount
that you can do to get tangible to get
measurable progress like one set is
probably enough to like if you were in
an exercise physiology lab they would
say yep progress was made but you will
not know the difference for the next 5
years right so we want something that's
tangible I would say get that up to like
three sets and if you're really pressed
for time just super set your way through
it and go to failure and I think you'd
be a slightly better off than just going
like once that calling it a day all
right - Brandon Armstrong it says yes
that's my real name and no you cannot
have it so fucking sweet that's an
all-american mean that is a very
American that's a that motherfucker's
like an astronaut if some kind of like
you know you know that's who the
president picks to just do some special
like this former Marine turned astronaut
turned politician a hundred percent
oh that's Brandon Armstrong he's a good
man Marc it's basically like John McCain
yeah or Neil Armstrong Neil Armstrong
quickly got a fuck out of the spotlight
because he's a she's a trippy guy man
yeah that movie was really interesting
did I believe it was fucking weird like
it was like he's mopey bad things happen
then good things happen that he's still
mopey and you're like sweet he's very
emo yeah all right Brandon Armstrong
says first I want to thank you guys for
any scientific principles of strength
training God that was eons ago man I
don't even remember right in that book
there was a long time but thank you so
much
it got my list for guessing again after
a year and a half of frustration lack of
progress it allowed man I finally know
what the fuck I'm doing with my life or
at least the parts of it I spend in the
gym also the sports scientists podcast
is in need of a new episode preferably
with more impressions and conversations
between Santa impressions we just do a
podcast where we're having conversations
within our like impressions of you Amyas
yeah I could easily do for Scott for all
episode Marcos could for sure do Arnold
and James you could do nerd guy or guy
they're good yeah well what a weird
hangout why would all why would those
people be in the same room yeah
right that's strange we need some
context meat it's a back story yeah
alright and they says anyway as far as
I'm aware this isn't exactly your as
there are specialty I'm under the
impression you probably know a bit more
about getting stronger Jack's the
problem is that I can't find much on
mild training specifically let alone
mild training in the context of
concurrent training with powerlifting
which I know has to have at least a few
important differences from 5ks and
certainly from marathons
which make up the majority of training
info available for running I figure that
as sports scientists you guys are at
least or more familiar with many aspects
of running training than I am and or
some of the other knowledgeable people
who know about as much no there's much
about my training as you guys do about
getting strong more jacked I trained
primarily for powerlifting though I do
have though I have no foreseeable plans
to compete just improve my numbers I
don't plan on getting any bigger than
175 to 180 maybe bigger depending on how
my lifts and mount em are at leaf at the
time at five foot ten so that I can
still be a moderately fast runner while
still being able to move some moderately
heavy weight at least compared to
gen-pop I also try to train a running
relatively fast mile and I'm aware that
compromises have to be made because of
this is both endeavors and some success
of breaking some of my unimpressive high
school track PRS at body weights of
fifteen pounds heavier than I was back
then about ten years ago by trying to
take some of the info I learn about 5k
training and a few books like hybrid
athlete Jack Daniels book on running
while still lifting and making pretty
decent progress in the areas well
however I've reached a point where I was
before lifting just running consistently
three times a week running six times
upper lower for lifting and training
hard with an attempt to progressive
overload is not resulting in improvement
beyond a 518 mile god damn that's a good
mile time for somebody weighs 180
fucking pounds and I really want that
some five at some point before I die
I realize that part of this may be due
to a need to run more frequently and
consequently lift less frequently it's
very very good idea you're having there
more on that later the problem is I
don't know how to properly manipulate
the variables to make sure that I'm
moving through my theoretical mile
training volume landmarks as I do
landmark hypertrophy of strength if I
were to add more of something I don't
know what I should do more of currently
I do one 45 or 60 minute long
one threshold run one vo2 max interval
session per week then each and I try to
slightly increase the volume of them
over time and then after a couple of
months whoo rooster volumes that
increase the pace is slightly repeating
the cycle I don't even know for sure of
what I'm doing is the right ballpark
level and correct I'd like to know what
the variables are and how to manipulate
them micro to micro meso to meso and how
to include phase potentiation to this if
applicable all in the context of
currently training for powerlifting some
degree though I prioritize lifting if I
had to choose one just to progress in a
while the other as a maintenance for now
to be honest I hope you guys can provide
some insight or at least point you in
the right direction sorry for asking
such huge question but for all of you
guys might just be a bag of answers for
this and nobody has bothered to ask so I
thought I'd give it a shot
thanks can I just chime in real quick
here
yeah so I don't know if maybe I'm just
being a dickhead but a lot of the things
he's you're asking about my man are
actually covered in the hybrid athlete
like a lot of that stuff like which
variables to manipulate long intensity
face potentiation how to incorporate
with powerlifting like that stuffs all
in there I think maybe you're just
getting too tripped up on the fact that
you're trying to do a mile run versus
like a 5k or anything else like he gets
to that literally next paragraph James
so he says anyway I appreciate it any
info or whatever and for you guys can
give on this or may be pointing in the
right direction the people from reading
on it reading the hybrid athlete helped
me a bit but Alex didn't really cover
the mile training aspect all that much
so I know enough to make sure I'm not
doing too much of both I don't really
know what I should be doing in regards
to conquer and powerlifting in mile
training specifically I just know that
it would be a bad idea for me to try to
take some random mile track work up
design for dedicated specialized hundred
and ten pound high school track runner
and you run a continuously in
conjunction with training through the
volume landmarks in regard to lifting
I'm looking to learn the principle so
that I can program I running is
intelligence I can for strength training
from thanks to your guys's books so
here's the deal you can take all of Alex
Fiona's approaches from the hybrid
athlete and scale them to running the
mile the real big question is how much
difficult how difficult is it to do Mile
Run training and how much fatigue it
feels over into your lifting and you can
adjust your lifting to reflect that no
so really the question is are you
lifting after you're running or before
whichever when you specialize that's the
one that should come first
generally speaking lifting should come
before running because you can always
run after lifting but not the other way
around and so what ends up happening is
you should probably lifting first and
your heavy lower body workouts should
come probably before your your hardest
runs and then you should scale the rest
of your training uh appropriately I do
have a little lost James for how to
train I mean I know how to train for the
mouth theoretically and I'm gonna lost
for book recommendations of how to train
now running in general I will say that
your plan does lack a phase potentiated
model which works really well for mild
run training Branden so what I would say
is actually what you probably want is
multiple weeks strung together of work
capacity training essentially slower
running where you build more capacity
multiple weeks of threshold training we
really really push your lactate
threshold a ton and then multiple weeks
of peaking training where you start
running distance as close to a mile
again and and run more of them a
competitive paces now you should be some
of all of those things in every phase
but the first phase is characterized by
a more base building or capacity works
the second phase characterized by more
of lactate threshold work in the last
phase characterized by more competitive
pace work so I say that's a good idea
and then you just got to find your
volume landmarks for running how much
running really really beats you up for
too much more running or lifting how
much lifting beats you up and scale
appropriately and I mean you're training
with weights a lot so be ready to scale
that back especially in your last phase
which is the competitive phase in which
you do mostly very similar to mile runs
and paces that's probably don't want to
start training like some like four times
a week instead of six and you might not
actually be running much more you just
need to buy more recovery time so you
can express your abilities more and
finally get that five-minute mile James
yeah so I had a couple things here so
the first thing you gotta really
recognize is a five eighteen mile time
is pretty good right and you have to
consider that running like all
no matter what the context there's only
so far that you can't go right and the
further you go the slower the gains are
going to be right and so you're gonna
see basically like a limit like a
calculus so we call that like an
exponential type curve where you're just
at some point like getting from 518 to
515 is going to require you to move
quite literal mountains in terms of
effort and training and stuff so at that
point right you're trying to get to like
a professional running pace while not
being a professional runner you're
trying to do powerlifting at the same
time and you already recognize that
there's a compromise so just keep in
mind right like you have to have some
realistic expectations like people don't
just break through like some of these
times while training everything else at
the same time they almost is
disrespectful for the people who are
really accomplished you know it on some
of these things and I'm not saying
that's that's your mindset but just keep
that in mind right if you're doing
powerlifting it's on me ball to think
that you can hit like pretty uh getting
close to like professional or elite
level running times so that being said
looking at your training I agree with
Mike you're kind of incorporating a lot
of stuff week to week when really you
probably should be focusing on maybe one
or two of these things and kind of
asymmetrically training them where you
have a couple mezzos that are more on
your just inside a couple muscles that
are more on the threshold side and then
a meso or two of just pure like Mile Run
type running activities at different
intensities the thing with a Mile Run is
it's really just like an anaerobic
threshold type thing it's a lot of pain
tolerance it's a lot of just glycolytic
activity so you probably don't need to
spend a huge chunk of the year doing the
long slow distance stuff unless you just
get out of shape I would spend I would
buy us more of your time towards
threshold stuff like lactate threshold
and above stuff as much as you can and
you can do interval training although I
don't really see the benefit of the
interval training here because it's
going to be done at an intensity that's
way above what you're going to be doing
for the mile run and it comes with a lot
of baggage if you're doing like
high-intensity interval training type
stuff so I would say that for health and
for fitness it's that would be fine but
specifically for trying to get to that
one-mile run threshold you might not
need to do that
now it can't buy us more towards the
threshold stuff and then eventually just
doing kind of like time trial type stuff
and also back to the question like why
are you so tied on the one-mile run it's
a perfectly fine goal I'm just kind of
curious like you could incorporate all
of these things as like a holistic like
cardiovascular health and longevity type
program and that would be amazing
but I think trying to do all of them in
the same you know week four periods on
end is probably violated a violation of
phase potentiation that's where you
might be having a hiccup there so just
keep in mind so basically kind of TLDR
getting any more than five 18 is gonna
require you to make some major changes
like like Mike said you might even just
have to do less power lifting just to
free up resources and recovery so you
can express your cardiovascular fitness
more I would kind of bias your training
more towards the threshold stuff but
also incorporating some long slow
distance in there from time to time and
then eventually moving into more like
time trial type stuff when you're
peaking and that's it the the the the
theory the variables all that stuff it's
the same stuff that Alex I read that
book so I know what's in there it's the
same stuff it's all the same stuff look
you're gonna be looking at distances
durations intensities heart rate all
that same stuff it's just it's just
contextualized into one event now so
that's the only difference so don't get
too caught up on the no there's no
there's no book that you're gonna find
that's like how to do a mile run
perfectly because I think you're like
one of a hundred people who really care
that passionately about their mile run
time not to not to diminish your goal
Adele it's just not a popular thing
whereas like five K's in marathons and
triathlons and and the like are very
popular yeah that's a very good answer
James it's a lot of that comes down to
taking basic principles of volume
landmarks and proper training and
essentially you know following them to
design the kind of training that you
know or fundamental level makes sense
yeah all right I get one more for you
one less cool question for dr. Mike this
is actually for both James and I I used
to be a professor so just for dr. Mike
yeah
used to be a fess or two so and the way
you take really complicated topics and
make them simple enough to feel like I
was only three seconds away from coming
to the same conclusion myself though
let's be honest I wasn't hiding develop
the skill of teaching things so well
aside from knowing what the fuck you're
talking about that's really important as
I'm sure you know being knowledgeable
and something alone doesn't necessarily
make you a great teacher of that thing
yeah so you know some of what I say may
not make any sense or may be wrong
because I think I've probably inherited
a lot of my teaching ability genetically
from my dad who's a professor and his
gifted professors but he's won a bunch
of awards so boy can that man gab his
fucking mouth off and so can i and Apple
didn't fall far from the tree and
hanging out with me is painful because
all I do is fucking Yap hilariously
enough what I'll do like you know if I a
lot of people so like psychedelic
mushrooms right which I've never taken
of course because I'm a decent
law-abiding citizen a lot of people when
they take them but you shut up
completely or they can't form words you
know I'm saying an alternative or if
your boy is on a fuckin one-man comedy
routine for four hours straight so it's
just sometimes you can fucking talk
right
but talking alone is not enough right so
not only do you have to be verbally
expressive she does to make sense and
like you said it has to be simplified I
hadn't but do have a cool trick here
that might might work you have to
understand what you're teaching so well
is that you have to be able to in your
hand boil it down to the simple concepts
that make it work a lot of people hide
if they are misunderstanding with an
obscene amount of terminology and
complexity let's say things are really
really complicated but maybe sometimes
they're not so complicated and once you
understand something it's a very very
simple level which you have to seek to
do and it's hard sometimes then you can
start to teach it at that simple level
with analogies and descriptions and
people like Wow and you also have don't
have a statistical understanding of the
world you have to be willing to
generalize and understand how
generalizations work you don't want to
be mired in the details so when someone
says you know for example are men taller
than women you say yeah on average
that's absolutely the case they're
seeing you you know they just like men
are taller than women
you know this one breed of dogs is
bigger than this other breed of dogs
right
Chow Chows are bigger than Pomeranians
though I'd sue they look almost
identical for every other thing so when
that's the case you know a lot of people
will say well gee man it's really not
true that all men are taller than all
women of course it's not fucking true so
you have to speak in a statistical way
of means and averages once you break
concepts now and you on average this on
average that an average that you could
link them in relatively simple
relationships and then it's no big deal
right but if you get mired in crazy
details there's a time and place for
that but that time in place is not
teaching concepts to people for their
first time so you say you know strength
training tends to produce the following
results in most people and then all of a
sudden you teach you in super simple
concepts and then in version 2 of that
class the graduate version you'd go okay
remember when it says strength training
business in that they're like yep
totally you're like okay now let's look
at the complexities so a lot of times
it's trying to understand the complex
concepts at their most simple and then
teaching that requires you to know what
the fuck you're talking about it
requires you to understand concepts at a
very simple level but it also requires
you to have a statistical understanding
of the world and really realize that
there's no you're never gonna get
penalized for speaking in broad strokes
you know what you might sound like me
simplifying is to some other people it
might sound like me being completely on
nuance and oversimplifying right
somebody may hear the idea that ChaCha's
are bigger than Pomeranians and the
first thing in their head is well I had
a Pomeranian that's been in the average
cha-cha that's nice here's your
congratulations you don't know
statistics award go get fucked somewhere
right I'm just kidding but on a serious
note you've got to be able to understand
things in generalities and be
comfortable speaking in generalities but
also understanding that doesn't cover
all the nuances world jamesy anything
they had on how to teach people simple
stuff um yeah that was really good
I'll actually take a page out of jordan
peterson because i've been listening to
a lot of his bullshit lately and one of
the things he recommends for his he has
like a writing program i don't subscribe
to the writing program i've only heard
him talking about it but you know one of
the things that he's really big advocate
on this is kind of circling back to what
the question and you were talking about
mike is um when you're right sometimes
you have to look at what you wrote down
if you're trying to express an idea or
something like you're trying to
something you might have to go back and
look at it like several times over and
rewrite sentences over and over and over
again and really try and boil it down
into kind of the most concise simple
like easily stated thing that you can
because a lot of times people get caught
up like Mike said and making things
overly complicated and trying to use big
words and trying to string all these
different various thoughts together but
what really helps as an instructor and
as a teacher is where and you can really
consolidate and focus down on something
that you're looking at and speak very
concisely on it very plainly on it so
you don't get kind of a wash of noise on
the topic right whereas it's very easy
like when you're talking about something
like strength training to get really
caught up and like there's so many
things right there's exercise modalities
there's frequencies there's intensities
there's volume considerations there's
SFR right so when you're speaking on
those things you really have to kind of
narrow it down and want these ideas down
one at a time into the most plain kind
of concise language that you can and I
think that's really helpful for for
writing and for teaching and it really
also forces you to consolidate your
knowledge into like plain simple
thoughts that can be conveyed to
somebody and so one of the tricks I like
to use with my students when I was
teaching was can you explain this to
your mom or your grandma right if you
can do that you probably have a pretty
good grasp on it
yeah that's a great answer all right
Aiden says hi dr. James sorry for the
amount of questions Aiden you're a
paying customer of our P+ you do not
have to apologize ever question you're
going to say you are a pain
customer meeting love question number
one in one of your lectures about rep
range critias ation you save to bias
more volume in each mouth cycle to each
of the three rep ranges 5 to 10 10 to 20
20 to 30 I can remember you saying in a
podcast that it was good that a good
plan a good plan is very important a
good plan would be a 20-week mass for
week maintenance and then a fat loss
phase with myself only be able to
accumulate volume around five each
before meeting a deal oh this equates to
3 mile cycles of 5 weeks that's 15 weeks
not including tea loads to extend this
math mass phase would you recommend just
do another mezzo biasing the volume into
tears what do you rep range again is
that's likely as the best so far
no I would not so and all four would be
for medical semantics no so Rabideau is
have a first mesocycle that slightly
biases the exercises that you can do
really pretty far into that five to 10
range or heavier right the next meta
cycle could be like a mix of 5 to 10 and
10 to 20 and a little bit of 20 to 30
the next mezzo could be you know mostly
10 to 20 but sort of even all three and
then the last mesocycle can be a lot of
20 to 30 a little bit of 10 to 20 and
very little 5 to 10 right so just
because there are three of these rep
ranges that doesn't mean you have to cap
out of three mesocycles it's not like
one against one one gets another one
remember it's always a blend for each
one so you just blend it a little
heavier in the first a little less heavy
in the second less having the third and
least heavy on the fourth that's it the
reason you don't want to end on a 10 to
20 remember I said we said that 10 to 20
likely has the best SFR for most people
in most situations on average but that
unfortunately doesn't work because when
we look at the 10 to 20 range it's
lifting heavier weights then the 20 to
30 range and by mezzo 4 if you're able
to survive 3 mezzos you may not be in a
joint situation where you can lift very
heavy weights for high volumes anymore
so for aggressively weights should
introduction of new volume should occur
usually with lighter and lighter weights
with cordon exercises because as you go
through a training block like a mass
muscle like a massive block your joint
fatigue starts to accumulate and you're
really gonna do the more of your heavier
lifting is going to occur in the first
lesson cycle you're still gonna do heavy
lifting throughout all of them but
you're probably not gonna add to the
heavy lifting you could add to the
moderate lifting and then add more more
of a lighter lifting as you go James no
it was really good I don't have much to
add on that question to Sawyer Instagram
we did a compound isolation and then
another compound I read the comments and
saw someone calling it the isolation
sandwich we made up that term in one of
her muscle guides it's so tasty are you
able to explain what the benefits of
this and who is it best for and when
it's absolutely not for people
aidan so that was clear I hope you buy
that so the isolation sandwich is not
some kind of miraculous technique it's a
special thing it actually just built on
really simple principles principle
number one high force compounds are
usually the best for growing faster
twitch muscle fibers and their best to
do fresh because faster twitch muscle
fibers are best trained fresh so because
they basically female fatigue faster
than any other fibers so if you do too
much pretty exhausting and training
faster fibers at the end of a bunch of
exercises they're already just dead they
just do don't do anything and you just
accumulate more fatigue for no fucking
reason so we do this like a heavy
compound at first let's say a bench
press with you know sets of five to ten
and then the next thing is you want to
keep pat hammer in your chest that your
chest is your target so what you might
want to do is you can choose between
another compound and an isolation but
the cool thing is is that it so the
downside of doing another compound is if
you do another compound like yeah your
front delts get a lot of work to try
some get a lot of work so does your
chest but what if we want to reduce the
amount of front delt and tricep
involvement and to really make sure our
chest is the limiting factor in that in
that compound the second one that we use
well the way we do it is we put an
isolation before it so now that we've
done a real heavy meat potatoes work on
the first compound the next thing we do
is isolation to really toast the chest
so the next time you do another compound
so let's say we do flies then when we do
incline dumbbell press your chest is so
fucking toasted it's for sure the
limiting factor in all of your movements
then it gets the most focused work while
keeping the volume relative effort and
load down for the incline dumbbell press
so you can save your front delts and
shoulders for another session that they
are prioritized in later that week
remember we do not recommend so who is
this for it's for higher level folks
that really want to target one muscle
especially a hard to target muscle that
gives them trouble with reach ability
sometimes people have trouble you'll say
I benchpress
I do in clouds I just never feel my
fucking chest I don't know what the
hell's going on the isolation sandwich
is a great tool for them not really use
it with people who have a limited time
and want to train their whole bodies in
three or four sessions a week because
that isolation sandwich just makes
everything you do after for your chest
and you have trouble
using all your other muscles James yeah
that was good the only point I wanted to
highlight which you hit on the end there
was it's probably more for advanced
people who benefit more also from the
increased interest section variation
where it's like intermediates and
beginners you know beginner it's like
one exercise per muscle group you're
good intermediates maybe like 1 2 3
advanced people might actually need to
have more you know 2 to 4 exercises per
muscle group simply because they the
trade off of doing more than a few sets
per exercise starts to become
increasingly negative so they're kind of
optimal ma vie might be like 3 or 4 sets
on a movement but they still need to
fill in more for that same muscle group
so they have to start switching out
using more and more movements so
definitely more of an advanced strategy
but can still be used by intermediates
but you don't it's not like it's not
like you're missing out if you're not
doing it and the isolation sandwich just
basically lets you hit two big check
marks checkmark one are you getting the
compound heavy stuff with no limiting
factors that's your first compound check
mark 2 is are we really making sure the
target muscle we're doing is the
limiting factor in a bunch more
high-volume work after the way you do
that is isolation and then compound
after excellent question 3 in my gym I
regularly have people come up to me
asking you what to do to build muscle do
you have a few sentences of what to say
to them yes lift weights and eat food
yeah the food stuff is for sure true but
let's just assume it's about training we
actually aren't going to read you a
sentence from the upcoming book holy
shit oh my god the spoken word on rp+
here we go this is the rp+ difference so
which you could tell them as the
following this is a direct this is us in
our overload chapter trying to boil
training down to legitimately two
sentences okay here it is do multiple
full range of motion sets of 5 to 30
reps that take 3 to 9 seconds each take
them close to failure where the target
muscles force production is the limiting
factor and repeat this approach as often
as you are recovered enough to do so
that's it tah-dah so train hard and when
you recover train again yeah so I mean
like people might be look cool after
Mike
but it's it's not an easy thing to boil
down into a couple sentences obviously
there's a lot of nuance there there's
like we said before there's volume is
intensive these exercises ice all sorts
of stuff but that's ultimately like
where everything kind of consolidates
down to that idea so yeah and it's
actually pretty good to senses because
someone's like okay so what about sets
of three no five to thirty what about
sets of thirty five note five to thirty
what about not going close to failure
nope not a good idea what about not full
range of motion that idea what about
waiting like a week after my muscles
already covered to train it again no
what about training the day after when
it's don't recover
no like just those two sentences alone
encode quite a bit of training structure
and remember if someone really needs two
sentences worth of advice boy are those
two really great sentences now can we do
better
yeah sure you can have them just study
under James Krieger for a year and
they'll know everything but the meaning
they don't have the bad words not to
mention we're writing a goddamn book
about it right that's a very large book
if fun enough that has like three
prerequisite books you should almost
serve it while you were reading off
those questions like should I do this no
should I do that I was thinking about
the meme with the guy with the hand
coming down on the gas button like
should I do this like gasps boom do it
yeah I just wrote the introduction for
the book actually and we have a couple
of books that we're recommending we'll
get into what they are now but Luther
the biggest one we recommend before
reading our book is Brad Schoenfeld
hypertrophy textbook and I basically am
like look you don't have to read this
book but you should read this book you
gotta read this book like if you do
actually have to read our book won't
make any goddamn sense cuz the thing is
people do another unit like nope just
just a preview guys for those of you who
know and have friends interested by the
book the book is designed and dedicated
to be exclusively for advanced
individuals like this is not a book
you're getting for your mom right there
is a book an intellect artist right yeah
this is the book that um there is a book
like that called the art and science of
lifting with Greg knuckles and Oh
Maurice oof that you can't get everyone
and that's actually our first four
records our book that we recommend
people read so but anyway yeah all right
question four I'm about I am soon to be
working in a gym as a personal trainer
for the next few months in Nashville
quite nervous good you should be super
nervous yell at people when you get
upset lash out at the lash out there
there that what's wrong with you I have
been an octopus remember for nearly here
now God - most of lectures watched each
week's weather and have all the RP books
I'm not also on average watch at least
one podcast per day oh shit and
subscribe to mass to stay up to date on
the most relevant studies I have also
recently purchased some university style
textbooks on clinical sport nutrition
recommended to me by RP live-chat I feel
I have the knowledge yeah for sure
fucking have the knowledge but as I keep
learning I realize there's so much more
to learn lol so I'm wondering what are
the key things that make a good personal
trainer well none of that shit actually
yeah it's your ability to be a very
pleasing personality and to make people
do two things work hard and enjoy
themselves think about it if someone's
working hard and enjoying themselves
there's just a win-win situation a lot
of trainers are really good at making
people enjoy themselves but they're not
working hard so they suck a lot of
people are making people work good at
people making people work hard but the
people don't find it enjoyable and they
just leave you at some point so what you
want to do is make people work hard coax
them into doing it while having a lot of
fun and enjoyment and a big part of that
is easing people into the process you
don't want to be like okay we're gonna
do everything perfectly forget perfect
forget flawless personal training is not
about that it's about putting together a
fundamentally decent plan and teaching
them the techniques and pushing them a
little bit further a little bit further
on most sessions and inviting them to do
a great job
inviting them to buy into really good
technique congratulating them on their
performance when they saw you don't say
you're bad just say you know think it
was okay I think we could do better next
that how about we litt rest a little bit
do it again and that way they grow with
you learn with you and remember one
really super important thing I'm gonna
tell you right now you know so much more
than the people you're training you can
tell them to do anything you want
try stand on your head and they'll do it
because they think it's a good idea
because that's what they're paying you
for it they know fuck-all about anything
you're going to tell them so don't worry
about like oh but James creature sets
that's a 6 and Mike hasn't tell us those
sets of eight well what do i do like
jesus fucking christ will of God just
make them do relatively full range of
motion lifts
go back to those two sentences we said
earlier that's
fucking good enough for most personal
training and most of it comes down to
motivation and just being a good person
around them and having fun with him
James
yeah and you also have to keep in mind
right like personal training is a
business it's a private sector job you
are there to please you are there to
sell sessions and make money and you
want it to be a win-win right so you are
not supposed to just be able to
regurgitate all this information that
you soaked in for all these various
sources you are dealing with a live
person you have to build a relationship
you have to build rapport and Trust and
confidence so a lot of it actually goes
less on the the X's and O's and more on
the interpersonal skills and I think for
personal training that's arguably just
as important and if you want to go by
numbers I know plenty of people in
personal training who do really bad
training but our exa have excellent
people skills and they probably are the
top tier moneymakers so depends on how
you look at it I would encourage you to
do the best job that you can with the
knowledge that you have but also keep in
your back pocket right it's a business
you don't want to sit there and ride
like your scientific high horse if it
means you're going to lose clients or
the clients are going to be unhappy with
the service that you're providing so
treat it like a business understand that
you have another human being that you're
interacting with and you can be right as
rain all the time you can white ride
that high horse but if you do it in such
a way that makes that person not like
you or not trust what you have to say
you're going to lose business homie and
that's not a good way to do it we know
plenty of people who have done that and
they struggle so keep that in mind
you're working with a human being now
it's not about like well I read in and
you can drop that you should be you know
buh buh buh but it's not it's not about
that anymore it's about how can I get
this person to do what I want in this
situation within the real-life
constraints that we have yeah just a
real quick thing I mean I used to teach
a course on on how to be a personal
trainer for a long time so I've got
fucking boatloads of shit on this I can
keep going but fundamentally your job is
to tell them what to do and do a quick
justification for every time and then
the rest is just motivation and being a
friend and counting reps and looking at
their technique so you're gonna be like
hey okay so we're gonna do squats now
cuz we're gonna target the like sound
good they're like ah like almost no one
is gonna be like always our quads or
rectus femoris or what the fuck nobody
people don't buy personal training
sessions that know that fucking much
right they're gonna train them from God
themselves thing is they'll be right up
shit creek without a paddle if they do
ask that because you could be like oh
you're not technical now
and then you shit out 30 seconds of
nonsense that they don't even understand
and they go oh wow this guy knows what
he's doing they probably certainly never
ask you that shit again so don't have to
justify everything you do just quickly
be like hey we're doing chest presses
for your pecs and your shoulders and
triceps and let's get it warmed up here
they do the warmth you're a Greek we're
gonna do heavy sets of five to ten I
want you to push it but good technique
is number one got it no I got it all
right getting on all right good good
press up and up excellent a little
deeper that time good that's four reps
let's get two more one more rack that
was awesome here's a water bottle take a
break we're gonna take 30 seconds and
we're gonna snatch these these pull
downs and back and forth back and forth
that's it that's personal training
fucking nine times out of ten that's all
you're doing and if they ask now so why
are we doing this versus that you can
even you know the next leap of
justification you don't have to download
all of humanity's knowledge into them
but while we're trying to the quads
because later we're gonna be doing
hamstrings and we want our hamstrings to
be fresh cool and they're like okay and
nine times out of 10 they don't give a
fuck and actually nine times out of 10
the reason James you ever notice this
personal training the reason asking a
question is to delay you from making
them do another action oh yes their
honor Brian like but you'll catch on to
that if you have remote social skills
you're like hey yeah totally so it's of
course we're keeping hamstrings fresh
got it but yeah time to do another set
they know that they're there to be
tortured by you so fundamentally they
always shut up and do what you say first
I'll show you has nothing else highly
recommend that conscious coaching book I
forgot the author but it's on audible
you can look it look it up it's really
got good things I've been using the RP
diet to fill my weightlifting
performance for years and our peace
simple science-based approach has been
instrumental to my success with the new
RP diet app following our P's principles
is as easy as entering my goals and
schedule in choosing my favorite foods
the app builds a diet to my exact needs
reminds me to eat my meals and adapts to
my body's changes every single day and
week the RP diet app is a huge help in
my quest to become the best athlete I
can be and if your goal is to be your
best it will help you question number
five am I missing I don't watch your
five every three if I make me chicken
for three meals out of my five days my
protein source no for example my meals
are a pre-workout chicken or potato is
post work
cereal I was a cereal with chicken I'd
be like okay see you with milk and whey
protein early afternoon chicken sandwich
dinner sometimes beef but mostly or
chicken pre bed oats with milk there's
anything bad having mostly chicken for a
protein source although I'm having milk
I'm sometimes beef some other sources I
think I heard something about may be
missing out on some other nutrients it's
not nonsense here but refer to nonsense
no totally fucking fine man you can
release that with a nearly complete
protein source and be hotter percent
fine I remember branch Warren just to be
big on that and be like you need to get
variety are you dear I need fish chicken
right beef look all in the same day it's
like are you out even like to hunt shit
yeah
no you're good I eat chicken for almost
all of my solid meals just cuz I don't
ever eat chicken cuz I don't let
anything industrially farm touch this
body but I would if I could only eat
industrially processed foods I
absolutely I don't want to eat I just
want everything introduced to me by
unmanned or robots is that so much to
ask I wish everything could be in like
sausage form that would be amazed that
is absolutely the most insightful thing
about your sexuality I've ever heard
mm-hmm it's gonna take more than that to
throw me off my game question six saw a
few people on YouTube a great source of
information I might add wait shit
whatever to just share mails podcast saw
a few people on YouTube taking a lot of
salt before work out to get a better
crop is there intrusiveness a little bit
little bit that time it right and
usually it means you're just not eating
enough salt anyway they're already
enough salt take you soft before work I
doesn't get you any better of a pump but
if you're chronically on salt which many
bodybuilders are cuz they for some
reason she's not to flavor the food
because it's not clean take yourself a
whore work I will absolutely give you a
better cop but guess what you can salt
all the time to be fine yeah yeah I
remember that was part of the NO thing
words like carbs and salt at this time
then take care no supplement it's like
so much to fuss with yeah just take a
hundred milligrams of mannitol and
you'll have all don't do that no no
don't do that Sean Morikawa Ruben says
hey guys hook there to money 20s off to
a great start
Sean you know we love you dog
so what but here's the thing justice me
your top job I never do understand to
get a deep super pedantic peculiar level
so mind you all this is a joke none of
us is meant to be serious on when people
are like how is your 20/20 like
motherfucker we done invented the year
like the suns we spin around the Sun an
extra time like fucking for the love of
God like December 31st January 1st
nothing of note changed it's irrelevant
to any can you imagine like then 2019
was a shitty year 2020 is gonna be
different why the fuck you still the
same scumbag used to be he's still
sucking the same shit job he won't
change you have got no balls whore
skills you don't obscene genes I just
hope your 212 2020s good like all right
I hope your random the future amount of
time is also good I hope your past is
good I fucking good you know I also
think it's funny that we put so much
stock into it when it was an are kind of
an arbitrary starts date as to when we
started accounting as time you know what
I've been around for a lot longer than
2,000 20 years yeah for sure I do the
Hebrew calendar man I'm like it's five
seven one five or some shit for me you
know well for you mr. Rubin I might add
right so uh all right but in any case
that was all joke let's get into Sean's
usually very very insightful questions
number one what do you guys think about
James Kriegers finding in his recent
January issue of weight ology regarding
interaction between sect volume and
arrest intervals suppose specifically
the trend that seemed to be more
apparent in the data that higher weekly
set volumes 30s to 40s in weekly sets
per muscle group with short rest
intervals give roughly roughly equal
hypertrophy to lower weekly volumes 10
to 20 with longer rest intervals and
that the primary reason some studies
show increasing effort Rafi up to such a
high volume is because they're paired
with short rest times so each individual
attention produces less hypertrophy
whereas with 10 to 20 weekly sets but
longer rest times there's fewer total
sets but each individual sets produces
more in her trophy so you can pretty
much pick either
lots of less stimulating sets or fewer
more stimulating sets in the week but
either way you pretty much end up at the
same end point sort of like a maximum
hurt recap per week I mean I think that
as usual James tweeter Knox
the park it's fucking brilliant it's
completely concordant with the data
it's absolutely expected um what I will
say is the following they're roughly
equivalent on a time investment so you
know it takes you just about as much
time to do six shorter wraps shorter
rest sets as it does to take for longer
rests that's what they are not
equivalent on is the amount of systemic
fatigue spillover that they cause yeah
shorter rest breaks that will cause sex
to be less hypertrophic than others are
by definition the set the next step is
started before the muscle can be the
most limiting factor to that movement
and thus what you end up getting is a
considerably higher level of cardio
respiratory fatigue of systemic fatigue
and all these other things so that
you're doing the same amount of or sorry
here you're actually doing feeling more
physical work and even if it's the same
amount of work so it's usually you know
multiple sets are doing more physical
work but more of that work ends up
relying on aerobic systems and on a
variety of other pathways that are
directly hypertrophic to that muscle
itself so what I would say is resting
longer better said resting long enough
so if the muscle is the limiting factor
which none of these 30 to 40 Seth
studies do because they do squats like
every minute or every minute and a half
like for sure you're not doing eight
sets of squats and still not breathing
right so what they end up doing is they
do accomplish a ton of work and a ton of
sets but they end up doing this by
relying a lot of aerobic mechanisms
other supporting muscles whereas if they
rested longer the target muscles
themselves would be the more stimulated
ones which means your efficiency of
training it escalates in some sense we
could call it efficiency it's not
actually stimulus to time ratio because
you spend on the same amount of time but
you're basically the resting a very
short time between sets so much that
affects your hypertrophy is actually
adding junk volume to your program so
that's not a great thing and if I saw
somebody who
resting too short between squats whoo
whoo breathing super-heavy you can
clearly tell most of the squat sets are
ended by their lungs rather than their
their legs I would say guy listen if you
just rest twice as long your quads are
gonna hit just as much with fewer sets
but your lungs won't get hit as much and
that fatigue you're accumulating from
doing all those numbers of sets is gonna
fuck you up nearly as much and you can
train for longer and more efficiently
James yeah and so just keep in mind some
are kind of basic basically going back
to some basic exercises here like if you
take a look
a longer rest time essentially what
you're trying to do is have each one of
those reps at a higher intensity than
comparative with the shorter rest time
ones right because you either have to
lower the weight or some combination of
things to more the wraps or the wraps to
accommodate for the shorter rest time
right and so this is kind of like
differences we see in hypertrophy
training for something like powerlifting
versus bodybuilding right and
powerlifting we're typically going to do
like sets of you know maybe eight to ten
with a nice long rest so that we can
maintain a high intensity on each one of
those reps
whereas in bodybuilding that trade-off
is not as favorable especially given
that we don't need to maintain a high
intensity and the systemic spillover of
that high intensity is so nasty we can
absolutely open up those different rep
ranges and they are roughly equivalently
hypertrophy stimulating so there's
there's a lot of nuance and trade-off
there but essentially in this case like
the longer rest we're kind of putting a
little nudge towards intensity right and
with a shorter rest will kind of give it
a little nudge towards volume but you
know they end up being pretty pretty
similar in the end I think it comes down
to this
like per our little sentence on what
causes hypertrophy what causes
hypertrophy of a specific muscle is the
maximization or increase in hypertrophic
signaling in that muscle the way that
happens is a ton of tension ton of
metabolites in a ton of cell swelling in
that muscle itself here's the trick
there is a no trick to getting around
that it just takes a certain amount of
physical work done by the target muscle
if you rest
not long enough you still have to do the
same amount of physical work you're just
gonna take you more sets to do it if you
rest long enough then you can accomplish
the physical work with fewer sets but
you're gonna have to rest more between
sets so you can really gather your shit
to puddi in that physical work it's
almost like if we have like a glass and
the glass filling the glass is
stimulating muscle hypertrophy responses
fully you can do a bunch of little fast
pours or or you can let your pouring
glass fill up a little bit longer do a
pour let it fill up a little long or do
a pour and then fill up a little longer
dip or it might take three ports to fill
it one way and if you go to your your
pour a glass to the faucet
just get a little bit get a little bit
get a little bit it's sort of the same
thing the only real question is how hard
is it to go to the faucet and come back
go too fast come back on a faucet come
back it's some work six times of that is
worse than three times of that how much
water do you spill in the spilling
process it's more so why would say take
as much rest as you need for the local
muscle group to be the limiting factor
so that you still spend the same
physical amount of time in the gym but
you have less systemic fatigue less junk
volume because the shore trust programs
will generate the same hypertrophy but
cost you more of that other bullshit
yeah and I think some of the
recommendations that I've heard Mike
make in the past like using your
breathing rate as a proxy for this
unless you're horribly out of shape and
the few in that case it doesn't work but
if you're in reasonably good shape even
just by body building standards when
your breath gets back to normal is
probably a good time to go again and if
it's not back to normal Mike it was too
soon
unless you're deliberately going for
that yeah and when you feel like like
you do a bicep curl someone's like you
about to do another set you're like yeah
do you feel like this set is gonna be
limited by your biceps or something else
and if you can honestly say my lower
back is gonna get me this set or my
shoulders are tired or I haven't caught
my breathing or my nervous system just
isn't ready to produce a lot of work
like I still feel defeated then don't
start start when you're ready and a lot
of times that's just a feeling you could
cultivate
over many many years of training yeah
and just to put just to like be clear
this doesn't necessarily mean we're
suggesting you should do the
weightlifting style training where you
do like a set of ten and then go to
McDonald's and come back yeah right
that's too much that's too much time but
it needs to see that ETSU a lot people
would literally do a set of ten and then
do another set of ten later in the day
and then the last set of ten like in the
evening that was cracking me up not that
long but just enough to connect that
quite easily yeah
number two I have a question regarding
static set training but you know you
guys aren't a fan of it I'm curious
about learning various perspectives and
ideas if someone's going to do a static
set aperture II plan what a good
starting method for planning out set
volume be to go to the RP hypertrophy
hub and for each body part simply pick a
number of sets somewhere in the middle
of the given any range so for example
chest is stated at 12 to 20 sets n maybe
so maybe bigger or something like 16
cents a week hamstrings stated at 10 to
16 picking 13 sets fronton 7 etc know
because you should know your own volume
line rocks much better than we can give
you them on our behind virtually hub if
someone was interested in the RP
hypertrophy hub doing a static set
program I would point them somewhere
between MeV and ma and the middle of
that a medium are rearranged to start so
closer to MeV and I would tell them to
do a static set program there for one
mesocycle after that is done they rate
their pump soreness perceived exertion
so on and so forth for every muscle
group and be like okay so that eight
sets of squats added per week did that
really hit home or was it just really
not an offer wasn't really much too much
and then they would adjust the static
set for the next month based on their
feedback from the last month James and I
are big fans of adjusting that every
week if needed right so if clearly last
week your pecs from fucking nothing you
should probably do more this week but
essentially statics that training is
saying delaying that for another cycle
still learn what's going on start lower
because starting lower as a safer bet it
gets you less injured and it still
produces great results and then next
time next month either raises that's a
little bit for everything because your
Emmy I mean he's gonna be elevated and
or to some extent some muscles are gonna
need much more calibration so I would
say doing it that way is a good idea if
someone is really brand new that is how
to do it but you're not brand new so you
probably know your ne V ma bearish range
pick something at the lower middle of
that and start there James yeah and one
of the reasons why you can't just use
your approach where you just jump in the
minute like a mid ma V range is because
when you keep this set static you have
to adjust the intensity in much
different ways either meaning training
closer to failure more often than not or
taking really really big intensity jumps
week to week to actually keep getting
something out of your program and
satisfy that kind of progressive
overload component so the reason why
that doesn't work is because you're
treating the intensity in a way that we
generally don't recommend on the
hypertrophy hub guide so it's one of
those where you could try and just jump
into like a mid-range MeV but because of
how you have to handle the intensity
because the sets aren't moving is going
to be dissimilar to the recommendations
that we use in the hypertrophy hub or
for those numbers can't really be used
so Mike's recommendation of starting
somewhere maybe around MeV see how the
intensity influences those numbers week
to week is a good place to start number
three in that person we had
you guys saying that front delts nav is
only about 68 sets due to all the
fatigue and stimulus actually from chest
work without nad solo many bodybuilders
easily doing 20 or 30 sets of shoulder
pressing a week does that mean most
bodybuilders essentially chronically
doing dozens of sets of junk falling for
front delts there are some credence to
the idea that maybe after years of doing
what might originally be way too high
volume they can build tolerance too high
if I'm actually benefit 2030 sets of
front delt work yes there's some
credence the idea but hold on a second
almost no one is doing 20 to 30 sets of
shoulder pressing a week most
bodybuilders this has been established
in a number of studies one of which Brad
Schoenfeld co-authored most bodybuilders
train every muscle group once a week
some very few training twice a week and
deducting the rest of the very tiny
minority of actual people who compete in
bodybuilding trained muscle groups three
plus times a week the ones that train
three plus times a week are usually
intelligible there's no other stuff that
don't do we go five sets of shoulder
pressing three times a week or more or
actually your example six to ten I don't
even know anyone into sixth sense that's
per session what I will say as far as
overhead pressing work or shoulder
pressing work most pro bodybuilders to
do the one session week thing James
would you say like the Flex wagons you
think it's like three to five sets of
incline dumbbell press at the beginning
of the workout and then everything else
is rear Dauntless I don't yeah I was
gonna say man I don't know where you're
getting that number from those twenty to
thirty shoulder pressing if you were
gonna say 20 to 30 sets of delts per
week with some shoulder pressing in
there I'd say yeah okay sure and some
that might even be once one session in
some cases which I'd still be like yeah
that's probably a lot of junk falling
but it does work the other thing too is
like you're gonna some of those
seemingly kind of comical sets I mean
like drugs do a lot of great stuff for
you now drugs aren't gonna be the quick
fix answer to this kind of situation but
yeah are you gonna build up a much
higher tolerance to doing like let's
just say Delta work in general maybe not
overhead pressing yeah absolutely that's
one of the big benefits of using drugs
and most pro bodybuilders are on that
route so I don't I don't agree with the
notion that they do 20 to 30 sets of
shoulder pressing per week though I do
agree with you they're probably doing
delts at that level but and only a small
fraction of that
I'm gonna be shoulder pressing if they
were to do that much shoulder pressing
God that would be such a horrible
trade-off your triceps would be fried
your shoulders would be fucked at all
point at all times you I mean anything
you could do anything else at that point
yes don't spill over its massive on that
yeah all right I was I was literally
thinking about somebody like doing like
seated barbell shoulder presses for like
one workout that's not gonna work would
even spread over a week that's fucking
crazy and you know people do crazy shit
I just don't know anyone I've never
heard of a bodybuilder doing this so
yeah I'm just just kind of curious where
you came up with that my man yeah all
right thank you - as always
Sean it's our pleasure as always always
excellent questions from you
unlike Martin Cooper who only has
dogshit questions oh hey Doc's it's been
a while but I'm glad to be back glad to
have you back
number one generally I generally find
the sumo squats life-size live presses
etc do nothing for my glutes
I prefer stance unlike press was medium
height going wide enough that my knees
touch the side of my shoulder when the
sled is resting yeah I like that 10
stance - as far down as I can tell and
feel it 100% of my quads that's good so
that's good for a leg press and quad
development it's it's maybe if you're
trying to use the leg press for your
glutes I would I would that's just the
wrong exercise the back okay this is
actually part of the same question it
took me a second here I have reduced
functionality my nostril is about 50% of
normal people due to a childhood injury
so if anything that is very systemically
taxing at higher ups squats lunges
cetera it's pretty much out of the
question because they're not getting
bucks any limited by my breathing
instead of my muscles yeah a big deal
I've been getting around this way - the
exercises are less dependent on
breathing hip thrusts for example first
to make fire says well I'm gonna muscle
great great use of just church yeah
however I'm still finding trouble
getting enough variation here to live an
extra selection I've been all right for
now four sets of machine hip thrust with
a three-second hold and squeeze at the
top absolutely destroy my glutes but I'm
running out of ideas on what to do doing
lunges afterward is mostly fine but
still feels partially limited by my
breathing I tried a machine that was
kind of like a donkey kick but the
horizontal it's not a vertical yep
that's actually a really good machine
nice panel getting burned
to connect to the beat yeah that's
possible yeah I'm still experimenting
around the different exercises but I was
wondering if you guys have any clue or
one good helpful exercise or anything in
general so I think a pretty exhaustive
method is great
I recommend slightly heavier lunges in
the 8 to 12 rep range can actually
target the glutes more than lighter ones
they would seem to preferentially get
hit with heavier weights whereas the
quads getting with lighter weights and
many people not all and another one is
do just go to Brecon traces Instagram
and or sign up for various materials he
has or Brett has literally invented like
20 odd glute exercises all of them have
something you can take away from he's
got so much shit you'll be overwhelmed
with that shaded most of them are not
systemic ly fatiguing so that's my
biggest recommendation you want gluts
Brett's the guy to look for yeah another
one I would add in is like the barbell
lunge where you actually take a backward
step it's much easier to really focus on
the glute rather than taking a forward
step and this to my experience I would
also shit I had another o so normally
I'm not Mike and I aren't big on these
kind of like very silly particular
recommendations but I'm gonna throw one
out there just because I think it's apt
here a lot of times your foot position
and kind of the pressure point that
you're pushing on your foot can make a
really big difference in the muscle
activation on some movements not all but
there are times where like if you push
really hard on your toes like on a leg
press or something for example you'll
feel it really really burning in your
quads but you can keep your foot in the
same position and push on your heel
you'll see the distribution of your
muscles changing a little bit and so if
the glutes one thing that I recommend is
playing with the foot position certainly
but also doing a little bit more heel
focus drive on a lot of the movements
like I was just thinking about the
donkey kick and if you were pushing with
your toes you might be getting a lot of
quad action on that just from the way
you're pushing it but if you do it in a
such a way that you're really pushing on
your heel and I know this is such a my
new thing but I think it's applicable
here I find that the heel is a really
good place if you're trying to get like
posterior chain activation after that
like Mike said Brett Brett is the glute
guy but I think what you're doing so far
is really good number two I was
wondering I saw Mike's Instagram post
about how Charles banks okay so his
Instagram is Charlton banks after
Carlton banks the
The Fresh Prince my later star his name
is Charlie Jung actually but that's
hilarious that you are saying that it's
a fine assumption by the way has made
great progress in the last six months
and also remember how Mike said that his
arms used to be a real leak point
Charlie's arms or my arms I wonder as
someone whose chest is their number one
weak point by far is there anything Mike
Cheryl's did slash change besides more
volume we didn't necessarily do more
volume
that really helped you grow a lot of it
is finding the frequencies and average
em v's and exercises that are the
highest stimulus to fatigue ratios like
we tried training biceps five times a
week and four times a week and I wasn't
much we went back to training them three
to four times a week and I was much
better we have been experimenting
various exercises like for example
incline dumbbell curls or something I
used to not like but I really learned a
good technique on it that's really
phenomenal exercise for me now that's a
good orally yep and sometimes you just
have to find new exercises and find
something that basically lets you groove
you have a great sessions great pumps
great soreness healing on time in the
building strength slowly over the
mesocycles and that's how you get really
good results incline dumbbell curls one
of those awful ones worth like the
burning and the pump is so fucking just
it's just painful it's just awful but
you know it's working it's a good one
100% I have trouble connecting with my
biceps in general like a lot of
exercises are just kind of yeah this is
hard but I wrote and then incline from
masturbating how much or not enough
number three I've been experiencing
something odd that happens every once in
a while and was wondering to you to
explain it it's a total inability to
progress on an exercise to spoke
progressing another exercise that
targets a muscle for example for hams I
didn't see did hamp curls and stiff
legged deadlifts in the past four months
by hand chrome went from thirty
kilograms for twelve reps to about 65
kilograms for 12 reps holding it for a
second while contracted to make sure I'm
not using body English I know I'm
obviously I know obviously some progress
is neural adaptation and all that jazz
moist if like an elephant for 115
kilograms for 10 reps to 120 kilograms
for 10 reps in the same span of time
it's not terrible the first I was
wondering if perhaps it was due to doing
head cross first but the only difference
between doing is definitely tell us of
doing them first first I have to have
curls of five kilogram increase the
thing is the stiff-legged Elif still
smoked my hams and get deep painful
stretch not much of a pump but there so
other day afterwards hem curves give me
much more of a pump but not much
tolerance today afterwards I have the
same thing with biceps regular dumbbell
bicep curls been 20 kilograms for last
year but I still get a great house for
it and progressing all the other bicep
exercises so a lot of things there a lot
of teachers used to that exercise yours
about as efficient as you're gonna get
if you give the high leg curl another
six months I doubt you're gonna put on
another thirty kilograms onto it ah
another thing is because you've been
rocking out on hamstring curls and
increasing how much work you do so much
for them that might actually have
accumulated fatigue that interferes with
your stuff like a deadlift making gains
because you know you did thirty
kilograms for twelve wrap so it's only
gonna fatigue you so much now that
you're so Murali efficient you do 65
kilograms four sets of twelve they might
actually fuck you up for this to forget
others to do another part of the week
that's at least one suggestion I also
have to say this and James let me know
if you think this is right or wrong I
wouldn't you know I would always seek
for the highest as afar's
always get the best technique but as
long as some exercises and the average
exercise is going up over time for a
muscle group I wouldn't push ever too
much about some that don't go off
sometimes where shit happens you might
have a limiting factor of muscle groups
that yeah like your lower back is the
limiting factor and that's what that's
you know what's holding you back your
glutes who knows it might actually be
your systemic nostril issue right our
hamstring curls don't make you breathe
all it'd have easy to forget that let's
do so it could be that it could be a
bunch of stuff but if on average your
hamstring exercises are going up and
especially if the isolations are going
up you got nothing to worry about
James yeah I agree and yeah that that
was actually the route I was gonna go
was you know with something like a stiff
legged deadlift there's just more
degrees of freedom more opportunities to
have weak links in the chain where it's
like you have a technique you have lower
back you have glutes you have hamstrings
even just getting the bar out of
position a couple times will throw off
your whole set right whereas like on an
isolation movement although sometimes
you can't generate a huge magnitude of
stimulus right there's nothing really to
fuck up except for that one joint and
one muscle that you're training
so when your hamstring curl goes up that
much it's definitely a combination of
neuro but I would say probably some
muscular adaptations as well and that's
bolstered by the fact that your stiff
like a deadlift is good enough the
problem is it's like if you see one
going up rapidly and one kind of going
up maybe not as much it's like well why
is the other one not going up as much
there's no way to know because that one
just has so many other things that could
go wrong the fact that both of them are
going up is definitely an indicator you
have an isolation and a compound
movement for that same muscle group both
of which are making progress what more
do you want homie that's good that's all
good that's all gravy I would say you're
given how much your hamstring curl went
up I would say you're definitely making
some really solid progress on that
movement and your hamstrings so that's
good and just keep in mind right there's
there's like no degrees of freedom on
that one it's like okay hamstrings and
that's about it I can't really fuck this
up whereas the other one like it could
be any number of things you could have
done too many pull-ups the day before
and now you can't hold the bar in
position to do the stiff legged deadly
run into that problem so there's a lot
of things that could go BB contributing
to that number four to continue in the
not progressing a lot of questions do
you have any exercises that just don't
go well with you I've tried variation
after variation of the barbell bench
flat low incline medium incline Smith
machine flat low Close Grip medium grip
wide grip
taking extended breaks ready benching
and coming back the thing that made me
think the exercise is just not for me it
is using kind of like a bench press
machine thing it's a flat bench and as a
handle for each hand
functions for all intents and purposes
kind of like a smith machine with two
handles anyway just like with barbell
but gentle variations I progress for
about a month and a half to two months
going from 40 kilograms to 85 for 8 reps
parlimentary has been stocked at 85
kilograms for a year and then any
progress completely stopped as such it
was just gaining back lost girl strength
with very minimal increase doesn't wait
if any I could not even add a rep
coupled with the fact that I could not
get a great stretch like I do with
dumbbell bench or a good pump I can't
get a pump but it takes a force that's a
flat mention the recent some incline to
get the same pump force that's what I'm
go punch give me well then there you go
it just seems like very met exercise for
me I only kept trying to make it work
for it's for this long due to how great
everyone thinks it is it's a shitty
reason to try and make something work by
the way and because I would lose a large
amount of variation if I did not do
barbell bench whatsoever what do you
guys think I think there's tons of
pressing exercises you do not ever need
to do any barbell benching
if the barbell but here's what the great
the SFR rating scale if the stimulus
that gets you is really awesome it
afloat eat gets you is competently not
so great you got a great fucking
exercise and if the opposite is true
then fuck that exercise you don't ever
fucking have to do it that's it man
James yeah there's like if D B's are
working for you leave there's infinite
DB variations believe it or not you can
play with the grip you can play with the
degree of incline right there's all
sorts of crazy DB stuff you can play
with fly variations you can do push-up
variations there's no shortage of like
chest stimulating exercises just because
you're not doing a heavy bench press
type movement doesn't mean that you're
doing something wrong
contrary to that it seems to be like
common practice so you can just throw
that out the window right if you get
huge pumps and huge stimulus from doing
like cable pack flies who cares right
you can always make up the extra like
front delt and tricep volume through
other exercises later on too so I would
say give the cambered bar a try play
with your technique if you haven't done
that and already where you really get
the elbows to flare out rather than
tucked in my powerlifting style make
sure your elbows are coming out
stretching out try the cambered bar
bench I'd say that's the last one and if
that one's no good you can throw it away
and just stick with your dumbbell press
in your push-up variations your fly
variations and you're probably no worse
for wear yeah
maybe a couple years later you can try
some barbell pressing and it might
actually be good for you that I've done
that where I've come back to exercises
years later but a lot more insight a
different body and then all of a sudden
it works super well yeah totally all
right number four what do you consider
to be roughly adequate amount of cardio
done to maintain health in general
cardio per week I walk about 10,000
steps a day I spend half of my total
work week it's about 20 hours standing
up I'm not sure if I should had actual
cardio as well no absolutely not he said
just as long as you keep your blood
pressure and pulse under xvalue then
you're fine um pretty much well I would
say anything north of 5,000 steps a day
is good enough for general health 10,000
and above is really just great so I you
for sure don't have to worry about it
yeah I mean like the ACS n
recommendations for like minimum cardio
benefit threshold is like a cumulative
like I think it's like 20 to 30 minutes
per week that's cumulative right that's
from all the taste in the week so yeah
you don't need much to get a lot out of
it number 5 is last thing I want to ask
luck
specifically variation if afternoon one
of the six sets of an exercise before
one overreaching look at an exercise
with good idea but this is not really
possible with caps since I could do the
30 sets a week no problem recovery wise
and I can't think of five calf exercises
that are really that different so I was
running first are there really more than
two variations as in there's a
difference between doing bodyweight
calves upstairs doing calf raises on
Smith machine we're doing calf raises on
a calf raise machine where you have a
pad on each shoulder
all three are technically different but
they all load the cast by loading the
calves vertically okay so do squats
light presses hacks watch the Center for
quads but we call those different
variants and by placing the load on your
spine resides the bodyweight calf raise
same thing with leg press calf raise it
might be different that it's horizontal
press that's not different at all the
loads still the same direction but I'm
not sure otherwise I'll light presses
with the calves at a 45 degree downwards
pattern unless I'm missing something it
just seems like you fundamentally have
two exercises and any variation assume
you know the rep rate just pause the
rest time so you can actually see they
say same thing about every single muscle
group so vertical pulling we could say
pull-ups pull-downs assisted pull-ups
really all the same thing we can say all
hip hinge deadlifts to forget bend lift
what's it called the glute ham raise and
fucking 45-degree back raise and good
morning they're all the same yeah
there's a little bit different but the
variation only needs something to be a
little bit different and you can
absolutely like you say vary rep ranges
pauses and rest times for sure but those
different exercises hit your calves just
a little bit differently enough to count
so I would say those are absolutely fine
variance gain and really theirs with
calves and not to I don't want to play
into this discussion too much but really
there's two main variations and that's
those done with a straight leg and those
done with the flexed knee it's a
straight knee and a flexed knee those
are the really two big differences but
all the straight ones I mean like yeah
they're loaded mostly the same way but
those are also tends to have like the
best EMG activation for all of the calf
muscles collectively it's it's a win-win
so I think that's plenty of variation
there I think that doing any of the
bench knee ones for a bodybuilding
purposes is mostly a waste of time
unless unless you have a really good
coach and he's like bro I've got to get
on that bent knee raise I think the
donkey calf raise is probably the
stupidest thing I've ever seen in terms
of exercises it
I don't yeah there's something just so
lame about it like I remember in pumping
iron where they would use to do donkey
calf raises all goddamn day just like
you guys looks so stupid so fucking dumb
there are a lot of exercises which is
just not flattering okay yeah like you
could do the same thing standing up
straight and not having your friends
riding you like a horse yeah but why but
why good all right our last question
asker for rp+ today before we get the
YouTube says veikkaus or is veikkaus
heifer and he says howdy with regards to
cutting calories for fat loss can you
talk about the pros and cons of cutting
from diet versus added cardio we have
done this extensively yeah earlier
webinars which you could search on rp+
and we have done it in various books
including the renaissance diet book but
we'll do a brief version here says for
example if I wanted to cut 200 calories
per day is there an advantage of keeping
nutrients the same and adding it list
engine walking instead of cutting
calories from food outside from time
such convenience manner is another more
situational example suppose I'm having a
party in the evening and a plan of
drinking eat more than a lot of my plan
is it better to pre mitigate and create
room for the binge by a cardio or by
cutting nutrients skipping a meal
beforehand or is there a difference up
the personal problems I wouldn't get
into this any of this bullshit at all
actually I would just enjoy the party
and then go back to your plan and your
to progress no you made a trade-off and
yeah getting into the fucking binge
purge exercise cycle is fucking bad idea
psychologically it just doesn't lead
anywhere good
but which one you do first really what
the question it should be asked is what
are your relative indices of fatigue /
hunger so for example if you are quite
hungry and not remotely fatigued doing
more cardio is good because cardio will
add fatigue but it won't make any
hungrier removing food will not have the
kind of fatigue as rapidly as cardio
does like extra cardio beats you up in a
way that lasts food doesn't nearly on
the same time scale but less food will
make you hungry so for example if your
leg workouts are going super well and
you're eating a ton of food you're not
super hungry but even do a lot of cardio
in your leg workouts are kind of like
feeling it and you know they're like if
you keep doing this much cardio or add
more cardio to generate more deficit
like work on some kind of for sure feel
it cuz you're sort of having like dead
leg all the time
definitely remove food on the next round
of adjustments if on the other hand
you're pretty fuckin hungry but you're
doing almost nothing your leg workouts
are totally fine and you add in three
cardio sessions a week at 600 calories
each or whatever I mean you don't feel
it at all in your leg workouts no real
added fatigue or very minimal but you're
not burning more calories without having
to decrease food cause if you decrease
food any more you'd fuckin kill yourself
with hunger then clearly adding in the
cardio is the best a lot of times it's
the combination of those two factors but
really that's how you determine if one
has gone too far than the other yeah
totally agree and so kind of generally
boils down to like would you be willing
to suffer more through doing exercise or
suffer more through starving probably
there's a happy middle ground between
the two only you can decide which is
better for your lifestyle and
preferences alright boom time for me to
share the screen to go to YouTube all
right all right off Rod's
on this is where we get to creep on
what's what's being recommended for
doctor Mike and his YouTube what did you
see this games can women defeat men in
sword fights like what kind of shit are
you into Mike I don't know man I don't
know how the fuck that this algorithm
works for the love of God I've never
searched anything related to sword
fighting ever
you got you got women stabbing men with
swords you got Jordan Peterson and a
couple over here looks like you got
chases of debate Jesus Christ no boy
John Meadows 21 reasons you're biased
that's a lot of reasons it's a really
high value it's a lot marxism you can
you go out you think about taking a trip
back to the former Soviet Union thinking
about definitely haven't had enough of
my life spin of Marcus all right let's
get to someone who's at the bottom here
but as a pretty good question the sanno
Turner says those who don't care about
hypertrophy next question but want to be
more functional in everyday life what do
you suggest focusing on farmers locks
weighted vast cardio mobility stuff I'm
thinking my goal is not specific enough
because my PT put me on a bro split with
most of it consisting of isolations
please help I'm paid $75 for session I
would like to reach my goals samuel
menudo fuck
solid go join across the gym you want
function CrossFit is essentially the
ultimate function you'll be great cardio
they're gonna essentially make you do a
bunch of weighted stuff bunch of strong
right stuff and the core is built on
compound super setted heavy basic
barbell moves and bodyweight moves the
vas a get me the best functional shape
and the best health so just look into
what cross what people are doing
consider joining across the gym and it's
actually join across with Jim
significant less than $75 per session
it'll get you a great shape you'll make
a ton of friends and it's gonna be
awesome
yeah and just keep in mind like
functional fitness and put the word
function implies like contextual Fitness
right so like why would you need to do
farmers walks are you a farmer or are
you gonna be like you know carrying a
wheelbarrow around all day like that
right if not then what's the function
there so really I think hypertrophy
training as that we would generally
recommend you know like a combination of
full range of motion compound movements
with some isolation movements in there
you know usually between five and thirty
reps that is pretty functional like what
doing if you can squat four sets of ten
like there are very few things that you
can't do for a normal person now if you
have like a super high level physical
level job or lifestyle then yeah you
might consider doing something like
CrossFit absolutely but it turns out
like if you can pick things up and put
them down in a variety of ways that
which is that's what bodybuilding and
hypertrophy training is it's good for
your health and you can do most anything
in your life so I would argue that
hypertrophy training is for activities
of daily living it is actually very
functional yeah yeah
try froze a says he'll generally used
for Finland medically here's a few
questions pick whatever and we're gonna
pick number three because I want games
to weigh in on this I know this is gonna
light fire there James is ass what is
your view on strength imbalances between
ones benchpress and Barbara roll in the
context to protect your shoulder
problems to just bicep go supernova
kenapa D my five are unmentioned almost
EMI Rose only eighty the bounds
important like some Sayer is volume and
load management all there to reduce
preventing ovaries injuries or pain my
suspicion is that the imbalance
stuff comes out of the clinical
literature and is
we misrepresented in literature and
non-clinical people I think the problem
of the balances is when something is so
fucking weak it gets hurt all the time
not that something else is really
fucking strong James what do you think
yeah that's my understanding too and so
it's it's unclear to me that having an
imbalance in this case let's say between
like upper-body pushing and pulling
muscles or antagonist and agonist like
push pull muscles right it's unclear to
me that that actually contributes to
injury potential outside of very extreme
circumstances now there are cases where
like imbalances have been associated
with injury and one of those is cycling
where the quads can become really really
over developed and the hamstrings tend
to lag significantly behind and that
tends to be associated with like knee
injury and knee pain but that is a very
extreme example and so for everyday
people and this hasn't to my knowledge
hasn't really been clearly fleshed out
for the upper body the need for symmetry
is largely a myth it's it's actually
more normal to be asymmetrical than it
is to be symmetrical right you're
supposed to not be uniformly strong
across all muscle groups that's the way
that you are brought into this world and
that's how the average person is so from
the standpoint of like should you be
training to correct these imbalances no
unless might as Mike already pointed out
unless you're painfully weak and
something or in some cases you can get
like reciprocal inhibition of like
antagonist muscles from one a common
example is this people who work at a
desk all day slouch forward right their
pecs end up getting tight and then they
can experience some reciprocal
inhibition and some of their scapula
retracting muscles but again that's a
result of their lifestyle not
necessarily that they're doing something
wrong and training very very good answer
all right last one
Nicolas Lucca arakata DLE oh my god
that's the spiciest name we've had
amazing how much does my muscle coma
technique matter versus going through
the motions and moving heavy weight for
hypertrophy that's actually a good
question yeah it's a really good
question my initial suspicion is that it
matters very little and so fundamentally
you like why the IFE Pro so big because
and relative effort targeting the
correct muscle in doing samba range of
motion even partial is gonna get you
most of your growth
everything else is bonus round slash
increasing the stimulus to fatigue ratio
so that you can not break when you're 35
but break when you're 55 and accomplish
everything you want to bodybuilding
through the interim um so technique
doesn't matter a ton for hypertrophy
unless your technique is so bad that
it's significantly taking load off of
the targeting musculature and giving it
to other muscles and they're becoming
limiting factors right so it's gonna
take any time yeah if you're talking can
benchpress is like a Close Grip
you know my chest won't grow like will
move your shit out and Fleer elbows and
I'm serving my chest is growing and you
say why I thought you said technique
doesn't matter yeah within what's
generally a good idea if your technique
becomes extreme then you're not hitting
the muscles anymore but if you feel it
in the target muscle we can't say much
um and my muscle connection merit
matters very little but what might also
can actually do for you isn't it itself
boost muscle growth much it really
doesn't it can increase the stimulus of
fatigue ratio significantly which is to
say that once you have my muscle
connection you could do with 30 kilos in
the same amount of stimulus used to have
to do with 35 or 40 kilos that's less
joint wear and tear less everything a
more systemic fatigue fraction opened up
for your other muscle groups and you can
just do a better job the way that like
Charlie and I train quads now if I did
this with how I used to train 10 years
ago out of straight died after two
months like but we do our squat
technique our leg press technique and a
mind muscle connection is so so high
that we essentially have a disability to
not have to lift five and six hundred
pounds we lift four and five hundred
pounds to get the equivalent amount of
hypertrophy and if you want to fuck
yourself up after years and years of
lifting lift needlessly heavy that's the
way to do it James yeah so I would kind
of clump my muscle and technique into
kind of like individualization
strategies right and you could you could
argue that there maybe could be in a
different context but that's what we're
getting at here and what we find is that
you know individualization of your
training especially to generate things
like high s FRS it's definitely a good
idea but it's not a critical idea it's
not you're not going to
you're not gonna be leaving a ton on the
table you're not gonna be making any
fundamental errors by not
individualizing things like your
technique so that it stimulates more
mind muscle connection in the leg
you see plenty of people get by just
fine just by moving the stuff around and
actually Daniel hacker had a question
about this several months ago and I
think we came to the same conclusion
like yeah if you just pick things up and
put them down you're gonna get growth to
some Darla through huge right exactly um
but if you can do it in such a way
that's individualized to your own needs
and stimulating SF are minimizing injury
risk right all those things you're
probably going to get just a little bit
more out of your training and at the
very least what we can expect you have
is a much greater longevity of training
you can stay in the game longer and
that's probably one of the biggest
benefits of body building and
hypertrophy training because the longer
you're in the game the more time that
you can accrue muscle right if you stop
training you stop accruing muscle if you
get injured or whatever right you're not
gaining muscle so the longer time that
you can be alive and training the better
and that's something that
individualization tech methods like that
can help you get yeah one example real
quick as my training partner Charlie he
used to be a basically world-class power
lifter he squatted eight hair pounds of
competition raw with knee wraps and he
used to do the training for powerlifting
that it was essentially like the the end
limit of super hard training that moved
going through the motions a powerlifting
is literally going through there's
specific emotions Charlie's very
muscular but his body was a fucking
walking wreck of almost injuries and
sort of injuries and current injuries
and he was always in pain and his work
capacity was always limited and then
when he started training bodybuilding
style with Jared and I just recently
about a year ago after six months of
that he basically has almost no nagging
injuries he's putting crazy morning
loads he's more muscular than ever not
by a huge amount but more muscular with
no pain and no injury God is that
awesome so if you told Charlie like hey
I want you to low bar squat seven hour
pounds for ups he could do it but he
would probably tell you go fuck yourself
and instead he would high bar with a
pause for fifty five and get this same
amount of quad activation for much less
of every other dog ship thing that goes
with going super so gravely
yeah totally so that was a good question
I'm glad you brought that up yep and
that was the last one folks if you're on
YouTube and you want your questions
answered you can continue to post them
in the comments and we may or may not
get to them but we only have a few three
YouTube questions our thing is for rp+
questions as you note we answer every
single one and it's only ten bucks a
month if you want to join come join our
free plus there's a link in every single
video so hit us up yeah
and a secondary benefit for RP plus they
post the videos on our website and they
are ad free and the YouTube I think we
starts getting seeing some of those
YouTube habits pop up every now and
again so if you want to add free and
your questions answered our P plus baby
for those of you on YouTube if you enjoy
like our peas stream there's obviously
the weekly webinar that Mike and I do
there's podcast like my podcast with
Nick and Laura just got posted there's a
whole bunch of other fun stuff on there
subscribe to our P that way you'll get
all the videos when they come out and
we'll see you next time peace homie