here we going on let's go my three what
[Music]
all yours all urs all yours come on shut
up push up come on you might do that
easy
[Music]
what
you so if I was asked to give just one
piece of fitness advice just one tip
that would make all the difference to
your physique it would be to pick the
right parents in fact I have been asked
this and this is the somewhat
tongue-in-cheek answer I'll usually
provide luckily I managed to pick two
pretty good ones my mom Denise has been
weight training for about 30 years and
has built herself a pretty impressive
physique naturally she also set the
Canadian national benchpress record in
2015 after just a couple months of
training and trained herself to do 100
pushups in a row at age 50 she was my
first real personal trainer introducing
me to her style of bodybuilding and
endurance hybrid training when I was 17
years old my dad bill has been a fan of
bodybuilding since long before I was
born he began weightlifting when he was
just 15 years old using scrap weights in
his bedroom and managed to build himself
a great physique repping seventeen and a
half inch arms at 5 foot 6 inches tall
bigger than my own uns so in this video
I want to cover just how much genetic
factors matter for how one's physique
looks and break it down into two main
categories building muscle and losing
fat but first let's cover some basic
fundamentals a massive 2016 report
covering over 140,000 twin pairs showed
height to be roughly 80% heritable now
this doesn't mean that since I'm five
foot five eighty percent of that height
is due to genetics and 20% due to diet
environment roughly speaking assuming
the average height of a man is 5 foot 10
then 80% of my height difference from
average is due to genetic factors so of
the 5 inch difference 4 inches would be
due to genetics and only one inch due to
environment or diet so this shows that
with an 80% heritability score your
height is very highly determined by
their parent sites so what about muscle
mass how heritable is that while tough
to say based on the evidence available
which has been able to sufficiently
control for lifestyle factors like
training and diet
researchers have estimated from twin
studies that
much as 50 to 80% of the variability in
muscular size amongst individuals are
due to genetic factors which is pretty
huge this degree of individual variation
was highlighted in a 2005 paper from Ho
Balan colleagues which looked at
differences in muscle size after 12
weeks of resistance training in 585
untrained men and women the subjects
followed a training program that only
trained the biceps and triceps with a
simple linear progression scheme and at
the end of the 12 weeks MRI was used to
measure muscle cross-sectional area the
results showed enormous variability with
outcomes ranging from negative 2% of 59%
meaning that the best responders
increase their bicep size by nearly 60%
while the worst responders actually lost
a few percentage of the size I think a
potential limitation of this study is
that total calorie and protein intake
wasn't controlled for so perhaps some of
the variation is due to differences in
nutritional habits amongst the
individuals and not strictly genetics
but even with this caveat in mind seen
such a huge spread of responses to the
exact same training protocol highlights
the fact that individual response to
training can vary tremendously in 2007
researchers out of McMaster University
published a paper comparing the effects
of sway versus milk protein in 56 young
men running a push poll egg split for 12
weeks via dexa they found that
supplementing milk post-workout led to
greater increases in fat free mass and
soy or carbs without protein however
note that the actual individual
responses were highly varied with some
folks in the soy group well√∂ performing
the average for milk and vice-versa
four years later a team of researchers
and geneticists collaborated on a
follow-up study which took the top and
bottom 15% from the milk versus soy
study the top 15% were labeled as high
responders in the bottom 50% as low
responders DEXA revealed that the high
responders had gained nearly four times
the lean mass and the low responders
using this data the authors identified
21 micro RNAs which are molecules that
can regulate muscle protein synthesis
and out of the twenty one four were
found to change expression following 12
weeks of resistance training of these
for mere 378 was most tightly correlated
with changes in lean body mass and since
its expression decreased only in the low
responders not in the high responders
maintaining expression of this micro RNA
could be a uniquely important
determinant of one's ability to build
muscle when following a resistance
training program basically keeping mere
378 levels high is a likely way to make
sure you get the gains of a high
responder of course making actual
training advice based on this info as
well ahead of where the current
literature is but it'll be interesting
to see this area develop in the future
high responders also tend to have more
satellite cells than low responders a
2008 study found that satellite cells in
which as their name implies sort of
surround muscle fibers like satellites
it can be thought of as cells that
repair old and form new muscle cells
were roughly twice as high and
previously identified high responders
and non-responders and for the high
responders only satellite cell number
increased by 50% following 16 weeks of
training while it didn't increase at all
for non responders I'm not so convinced
that true quote non responders exist or
if they do I'd say they're pretty rare
it seems more likely to me that
different individuals respond better to
different training methods so putting
everyone on the same training program
and measuring individual response mostly
identifies that some people respond
better to that training protocol and
doesn't rule out the possibility that
the so-called non responders would do
better on a more individualized program
methodically tweaked through personal
trial and error genes not only regulate
muscle mass but also fat loss by
impacting energy balance and nutrient
partitioning a paper from Bouchard and
colleagues over fed 12 pairs of twins by
1,000 extra calories per day for 100
days and found massive differences
amongst the pairs and weight gain
ranging from nine and a half to 29
pounds perhaps even more shocking is
that the most metabolically blest
subjects on No
increase an abdominal visceral fat
whatsoever while the least blessed of
the group's awfully 200% increase in
abdominal visceral fat based on the
findings the author's estimate 40
percent as a heritability figure from
metabolic factors involved in
differences in weight and in fact so
roughly speaking and according to this
data losing fat is slightly more within
your control than either gaining muscle
or increasing height the location of fat
storage is also genetically regulated
scientists have identified a number of
genes that control where your body
stores fat and I've given an a
heritability of 22 to 61 percent and
while the state have focused mainly on
genetic differences between subcutaneous
fat or fat just under the skin and the
more health concerning visceral fat or
fat stored around organs individual
differences in subcutaneous fat
distribution also exists while most men
tend to store fat more readily around
the abdominal and love handle area and
for women the hips and glutes are
usually stubborn areas even when
comparing individuals of the same sex
you see that different people just store
fat in different places in practice
there's no convincing way to manipulate
this much other than by losing fat
overall and eventually the stubborn
areas will be burned off to as early as
1999 studies have identified so-called
high fat and low fat phenotypes and it
seems to be the case that some folks are
genetically predisposed to increase fat
burning in response to a higher fat diet
while others see better fat loss in
response to a lower fat and higher carb
diet a major factor regulating this is
insulin sensitivity which refers to how
well the body responds to the hormone
insulin and while one's insulin
sensitivity is largely controlled by
lifestyle factors like regular exercise
diet quality and body fat percentage
there's also a large genetic component
and according to the conclusion of a
2017 paper published in the Journal of
Gastroenterology there is no optimal
macronutrient distribution for weight
management
no one-size-fits-all strategy that will
suit everyone caloric restriction is the
fundamental premise of every successful
weight loss strategy whether that's
achieved by lowering fat or carbohydrate
and the best diet ultimately is the one
that you can stick to long and
to achieve the weight-loss goals that
you desire so to make all this a little
more tangible here are a few of my
practical takeaways first don't assume
you lost the genetic lottery and use
that as an excuse not to do your best as
then you're guaranteed to fall short of
your goals instead trained as if your
genes were working for you and you'll
get a lot further along the path to
where you want to be second use this
information to learn more about yourself
uniquely by experimenting with different
exercises training styles and playing
with your diet such as by periodically
altering carb to fat ratios and be your
own scientist to figure out what works
best for you and finally when assessing
progress only compare your current place
to lower starting place so while it's
nice to have role models who inspire you
to be better
it isn't smart to ever compare your
results to theirs
hey what's going on everyone thank you
so much for watching the workout I just
want to quickly say thanks to my mom or
taking me through another one of her
crazy workouts my mom is currently
training for another 100 push-up
challenge we're gonna make it fun and do
a mother versus son push-up challenge
you guys could stay tuned for that video
also my mom is currently taking on
online clients for one-on-one coaching I
so do or maybe your mom is looking to
lose some fat or ability strength
shooter an email and I've also got her a
new website link in the description
thanks once again guys so much for
watching you're new to the channel don't
forget to subscribe hit the thumbs up
button if you liked it also comment
below if you have any future topics
you'd like to hear me cover in a future
science explained and I will see you
guys
[Music]