basically an 8 Hour arm workout and it
will push them into future growth maybe
unlikely but maybe what you can get from
a workout like this if you survive it is
a huge recruitment to activate the
satellite cells that usually lie
relatively dormant around your muscles
because your muscles are like dude World
War III is broken out we need everyone
on the front lines their satellite cells
like they get in there they incorporate
that takes probably a few days few weeks
and then you get bigger so you can get a
rebound growth effect from this workout
you just roll on the dice a little bit
cuz you're almost certainly going to get
some muscle loss during that workout and
it may continue for several days as your
healing process doesn't even support
growth you incorporate satellite cells
yes could you incorporate satellite
cells over several weeks of time doing
normal workouts just pushing each one a
little harder yeah so is this necessary
not even remotely