this is the worst thing about being back
in Florida stupid lizards everywhere how
do you get rid of those things I don't
want them jumping on my my toes I don't
why I'm so scared of lizards go go go
not on the chair oh no I hate lizards so
much it's like they're just like
creepiest little things anyways what's
going on everybody so if you can't tell
Steph and I have made it back to
Jacksonville Florida we're actually in
between places right now so we've just
been staying at this sweet Airbnb for
the last couple days and we've got
another few days left here before we go
back to Canada
got a nice pool back here and then the
Airbnb is actually on a chrome-like a
little creek you have like a boat over
here that apparently you can use a
couple little paddle boats and stuff but
I don't know if we get into any of that
but yeah I've been kind of like taking a
bit of a break just sort of relaxing and
getting caught up on some like reading
material some podcasts actually just
finished listening I'm going to show you
guys
it's called vegans are they right and
it's by the podcast science versus which
is honestly one of my favorite like
mainstream science communication
podcasts and I love that one and
skeptics guide to the universe and this
was actually pretty good I think it was
like kind of a bit of just like a
cursory glance at everything related to
veganism but their main takeaway I think
was that veganism is better for the
environment and if you don't eat meat
you probably won't get sick as long as
you're making sure you have enough
vitamin b12 that was one that they kind
of highlighted as a pretty heavy risk
for deficiency amongst vegans but they
recommended getting a b12 shot if you do
happen to be vegan and then also on the
topic of veganism this podcast just
launched which is the Joe Rogan
experience one so there's a debate
between vegan gains and Jeff nip no just
kidding there's a debate between dr.
Joel Khan and Chris crecer I actually
don't follow either of those two guys
but I'm sure it'll be good I do like
listening to Joe Rogan's podcast but
according to one of my vegan friends
they actually both did a pretty bad job
but if you guys did listen to that one
let me know your comments
below I'm looking forward to kind of
like picking it apart and seeing what
they have to say but anyway I'm gonna
give you guys a super quick tour of the
place so here is kind of the outside
area oh and by the way I feel like I
should say we we are probably going to
be doing a little bit of time-traveling
this plug because I haven't uploaded the
last of the meadows videos yet but I'm
gonna upload that one this weekend I
just kinda want to do a little bit of
vlogging while I was here and show you
guys how I've kind of gotten back on
track with my regular training so this
is like the main area it's really fun
when you travel to like stay in a spot
that I feel like is representative of
the area like this place actually feels
like a Jacksonville home to me
so when Stef and I go to Hong Kong we're
gonna get a place that like is
representative of Hong Kong so it feels
like you're actually living in the area
that's been super fun
and then up here sorry if you guys are
getting dizzy okay so up here there's
this like creepy kids room in here that
I try to avoid don't don't don't don't
don't dun dun yeah I don't know why it
just creeps me out in here we avoid this
place over here is our bedroom so master
suite and then there's a little balcony
out here so then this is that pool area
where we just were and then yeah that's
the Creek out there and then out here in
the driveway I don't know if you can see
it but there's actually a basketball
hoop right out there you can't see it
show you guys that after and so then
over here we've got the master bathroom
and there's me so this is the current
physique I feel like everything is
actually coming in pretty nicely got the
scale here I haven't weighed in like oh
we got to at least and then just waited
before I started vlogging here and I
think it was 162 I'm gonna hop on there
now just show you guys so yeah dead-on
162 and that's actually after having
eaten like well I had a protein shake so
I feel like first thing in the morning
I'm probably probably around 160
maybe in the high 50s which is kind of
crazy
but yeah I'm just gonna set up the
camera here and give you guys a quick
update because it's been a while health
let me give you guys a few poses go
through those before I do that I'm
actually going to throw on Steph always
has this like tan cream taking her cover
so I find if I put this on before I pose
just look so much better then going out
in the morning in the Sun for like you
know hour or so since we've been here
and I feel like I've gotten a little bit
of color just having a team can make
such a huge difference in terms of like
how your muscles look and how they pop
up a printable bicep side chest
[Music]
sigh I'll do a few back shots so here's
the back back let's bring back the bicep
this muscular
two quarters from those so yeah so my
physique and everything like that I
actually plan on ending the cut a nice
while ago but I felt like for whatever
reason I wasn't really looking quite as
lean as I wanted to and I want cutting
for anything in particular but I find if
I get past a certain threshold of
leanness then when I actually do start
to refeed and fill back out everything
just look so much better
and I want to make sure like over the
years of cutting I'll kind of learn
where that threshold is and I really
want to make sure that I get there
before I start to go back out so I think
that if I just drop another couple
pounds I'll be pretty much where I want
to be and that's not really a moving
target I actually expected that I would
get there by like the low one 60s but
then I got to the low and six knees and
I'm not quite there so I don't know what
to blame that on but in any case I'll
just keep going until I get where I need
to be and then start refilling and
refeeding back out from there however I
will say my training and everything like
that has been going great and I think
that's because I've been doing this
quote doing this quote unquote cut so
slowly to the point that I've basically
just been maintaining for the most part
while tightening up and I feel like
since I've really gotten my training in
check am i visible here since I've
really gotten my training in check
there's that basketball hoop by the way
I have seen a bit of body recomposition
my goal from here is gonna be to finish
out this cut probably get down to like
157 158 and then begin refeeding from
there and I think that that when I'll
really start to look my absolute best I
want to shoot some hoops
actually I don't know if they even have
a basketball here I'm gonna check in the
garage this is like lizard utopia out
here we also avoid that at all costs
Steph makes fun of me for being so
scared of lizards but we didn't have
those good enough all right let's see oh
there's probably a code
they probably keep that locked show you
guys the property from the front this is
kinda what it looks like it's it's
definitely too big her staff and I but
we've also had Steph's mom staying with
us while we're here and it's just nice
to have all that space and like the big
theater room and the basketball court
that's ball hoop if I could use it so it
is 1215 just look at all this carnage
this is left over from Steph's cheat day
yesterday these are the best sugar
cookies I had like two of these
yesterday I think
and then these pop-tarts I had a half of
one of these this is probably the best
flavor of pop-tarts I've ever had I'm
serious they did a really good job with
the pumpkin pie if you like pumpkin pie
you'll love these I've been actually
been not really doing intermittent
fasting but in a way like I'll get up
I'll have two scoops of the vegan
protein powder and then I won't eat
until I start to feel my hunger actually
kick in which is usually now that are on
Eastern time around like two maybe three
an afternoon and then I'll have my
pre-workout meal and then we'll go train
so that's probably what I'll do again
today and I have been doing intuitive
eating which feel like works really well
for me like on a cut it's super
convenient because my appetite actually
isn't very strong so it's quite easy for
me to delay eating and then just kind of
eat according to when I'm hungry and I
have no problem stopping when I'm full
but I've done a ton of videos on that so
anyway I'm gonna get back in my spot and
put on that Joe Rogan podcast if I do
finish it I'll let you guys know my
brief thoughts and I'll check them with
you guys after ok so guys we're on our
way to the gym got my partner-in-crime
back over here first I wanted to share
my quick thoughts on that Joe Rogan
debates I actually watched like the
first half an hour of it alright listen
to it yeah listen to like the first half
an hour and then I just had other stuff
to do so I didn't finish it but so far
it it actually seems pretty good so far
I'm giving the upper hand
the Kresser guy the paleo guy even
though I'm not a follower of paleo dr.
Khan I think his name the vegan guy
started off with a few things I wish he
would just be a little bit more precise
with his language like he was saying
stuff like I don't eat any sugar or no
he said I don't eat sugar and it's like
I know what he means by that but when
people say that they're usually
villainizing sugar in a way it doesn't
make a lot of sense but he's a vegan so
he obviously it's fruit but anyway you'd
think that someone with that level of
expertise would be a little bit more
precise and then I thought the Kresser
guy I think who saying his name right
made a few really good points about the
limitations of epidemiological research
and the first point that he made was
that dietary recall is really really bad
in these epidemiological studies and
people can't even remember what they had
for lunch yesterday who had alone over
the past several years and people who
are overweight or obese tend to be the
worst at guessing their energy intake in
particular to the point that in some of
the largest databases that we have on
nutrition people who are overweight and
obese are reporting eating caloric
intakes that wouldn't sustain an elderly
frail old woman according to like their
requirements so people are just really
bad at reporting energy intakes also
there's something called the healthy
user bias basically because things like
say red meat have gotten a negative
stigma over decades people who are
generally unhealthy so who do things
like smoke or don't exercise also tend
to do other unhealthy things like eat
red meat so it's really difficult to
tease apart causality in that sense and
then also he pointed out that relative
risks in nutrition and this nutritional
data are really low so he referred to
the World Health Organization's
statement that 50 grams of processed
meat eaten daily across a lifetime
increases risk of colorectal cancer by
18 percent and you see all the clickbait
headlines coming out of it increases
your risk by 18 percent
but what they often fail to mention is
that this is a relative increase so
given all the epidemiological factors
the likelihood of getting colorectal
cancer is something like 4% so it's it's
not an 18% increase from four it doesn't
bring it up to 22% it's a relative
increase so it brings it up to something
like four point seven percent I'm just
rounding that up that would be a
one-percent absolute risk increase so if
you had a hundred people that's one
person who might develop colorectal
cancer as a result of eating processed
meat every day and that isn't something
that totally omits the RIC the risk
factor it definitely is there and it's
legitimate but these numbers are really
small to the point that it's difficult
to separate them from just fluke or
chance findings so anyway those are just
some limitations on that observational
epidemiological research that you often
see cited in defense of certain
nutritional interventions and that
epidemiological data is just data that
doesn't actually have an intervention it
just follows people and follows what
they're doing over a long period of time
and then looks for friends it's not that
you should throw it out all together but
just you need to be aware of his
limitations anyway I thought that was
one really good point from that podcast
and so far has been worth listening to
so we should we should finish that
together maybe I know I had to catch up
I listen to the science versus something
oh did you I showed that one here too it
was pretty good
it was really surface-level though yeah
much like yeah I'm gonna go hit up this
back workout I've got actually it's a
pool workout so I've got week to day
they three men you today so I'm gonna
check in with you guys in the gym and
show you what I'm doing they shout out
to this LA Fitness right here too they
are the best welcoming gym
generally speaking sometimes we do I
wouldn't even say sometimes that's him
most of the time we run into issues
filming and I've been filming from 1,000
subscribers up to now almost a million
subscribers and it doesn't get any
easier believe it or not but this gym is
so good and they let us do it so I'll
put the address of the gym up here if
you guys are in Jacksonville would like
to check it out because I really do
appreciate that
[Music]
fifteen games have been
doing a 5-10 minutes of just basketball
that's a warm-up activity careful not to
overdo it I hug playing come fix it the
nuns always the one I'm going to long
ago in disco
take you guys through everything that I
did
[Music]
that really was just water
thank you I just walked in here so I've
decreed with a
[Music]
but alright so guys we just finished up
with the workout and now we're actually
headed to grab a bite to eat with snaps
mom ice we're going to get some Thai
food now but I just wanted to quickly
take you guys through the workout so
this was pulled a number one for the
week and this time on week two day
number three so if you guys have my
program you'll know how this goes very
quickly
the first exercise we did was a one-arm
lap pull Ian and I did those for two
sets of 15 to 20 reps so here the idea
is just to get a bit of a pump in the
lats
kind of get the blood flowing and these
are just taken to an RPE of five so it's
very light and I like to crunch into the
direction of the pull really get a
stretch and squeeze on my lats and
that's more or less just kind of like a
warm-up technique so the first main
exercise of the day is a pull-up so here
I did four sets of six to eight reps and
I have to do these weighted otherwise
it's just not challenging enough and I
normally have like a belt and like a
chained belt that I use for adding extra
resistance to these I didn't have it
today so I improvised and Steph placed a
dumbbell between my legs so kind of just
like cross my ankles over and then let a
dumbbell sort of rest there and I was
only doing 25 pounds because I really
wanted to focus on full range of motion
and good quality control on these and
they're only meant to be taken to an RP
of eight so not pushing it too too close
to failure and then also I try to
maintain more of an upright back posture
and not use too much momentum so this is
like the bread and butter of my back
routine these pull-ups people will
sometimes criticize my back training for
saying oh you're doing too much pumping
and just like isolation exercises and
things like this but on the channel you
often don't see the full big picture of
my training all else being equal I would
probably give a pull-up the upper hand
to a pulldown just because you do tend
to see more biceps involvement with the
pull-up and then the same lat
involvement and if I had to guess I'd
say you probably do get a little bit
more involvement of some of the
assistance muscles like a terrorist
major and some of the rhomboids as well
even though I don't know of any data
showing that but whatever the case may
be
pull-ups are definitely harder and
so if you're a masochist like me you
might want to include them in your
routine okay up next was the pen delay
row so this is a movement that I've been
doing for years and years I do think
it's one of the best movements for the
mid-back because it really does kind of
lock you in and really prevent any kind
of cheating and that makes the movement
more difficult and you can cheat row a
lot more than you can do with a strict
pen lay row and I really learned this on
my second set so on my second set I went
up from 135 up to 185 and I just found
the way to be a little bit too heavy I
found I was kind of getting a little bit
too much body English at the top of
driving my chest down into the bar
rather than strictly bringing the bar up
to my chest and that's generally a bad
sign so check my ego on this one
stripped it back down to 155 then I was
able to do a really strict clean 10 reps
I might have been 12 reps with a full
reset on every rep and so with these you
want to keep a pretty flat back angle so
not completely parallel to the floor you
want to brace your core and make sure
that you're maintaining a neutral lower
back and looking back at some of this
footage I realized I probably could have
kept my upper back a little bit more
neutral as well but in any case as long
as that lower back is nice and straight
then you're probably good to go and you
just want to pull the bar up to your
chest and then on every single rep you
want to reset it completely on the floor
and then initiate every rep from a dead
stop Pendley row fantastic exercise has
been doing it for years really look
forward to getting stronger on those as
the the program goes on then that from
here it becomes a little bit more of
like a pump style workout so we kind of
got the main heavy bread and butter out
of the way now we're moving into a
machine Jairo so here we're doing sets
of 10 to 12 reps and here is where I
start to employ that mind-muscle
connection so previous to this really
focusing on my whole body technique and
how I'm moving in 3d space now at this
point I'm starting to really hone in on
squeezing my lats squeezing my shoulder
blades together and really getting that
strong mind muscle connection after that
we're moving on to the seated face pull
oh so I actually like to do these half
line and again here you really want to
think about pulling back with your rear
delts you kind of initiate out with your
rear delts and then squeeze your
shoulder blades together as hard as you
can at the top so you're gonna get your
traps involved like that as well and you
really want to control the eccentric and
one thing that I've noticed from looking
my footage on this that I've been doing
too much is using momentum to kind of
allow my self to hinge at the hips so my
upper torso comes up and closes and then
goes back down and you can probably see
me do it on the first few reps here I'll
just skip back to the first few reps I
mean that bit of momentum at the start
to really take the rear delts out of the
movement if you're gonna be initiating
with those I'm so what you want to do is
kind of keep your back more or less
stationary so if it's going to be a
little bit upright or it's going to be
completely flat that's fine but what you
don't want to do is allow hinging at the
hips to initiate any kind of momentum
for the duration of the face pole try to
keep those tight there I did sets of 20
reps so good focus on squeezing my
muscle connection etc then we finished
off with some bicep stuff so first up
was this brutal superset of reverse grip
easy bear curls and supinated easy bar
curls so the first thing you do is you
knock out 20 reps with the reverse grip
and the idea here is to fatigue some of
the other elbow flexors of the forearm I
like to break your radialis for example
and then we want to flip over so
supinate over your palms and do another
15 reps so that since all the other
elbow flexors are fatigued now the
biceps are gonna kind of take over and
handle the rest of the work and if
nothing else if you don't buy that
mechanical stuff your biceps will get a
crazy pump from this in your forearms as
well like the vascularity going down my
forearms and my biceps is really like
nothing else after doing these so if you
never tried them give them a shot then
we're finishing off the workout with
dumbbell preacher curl three sets of
twelve on each arm and I actually like
to go heavy on this one I find I can go
heavy on hammer curls and you'll see
that I do use a little bit of body
English on this one a little bit of
cheating and that's okay because I feel
like for the rest of the workout and
pretty strict with the form and here I
do like to go a little heavy like to
show off flex in the mirror a little bit
so anyway but the idea here in all
seriousness you don't want to let your
elbows come too far forward you want to
make sure it is to the in fact the bicep
that's doing the curl and you want to
avoid resting your thumbs on the X
ahead of the dumbbells you want to try
to grip it in the middle of the handle
and that'll really force your ear forums
to turn on as well and then my last pull
day I actually missed out on a little
bit of bicep work we just had to cut the
workout short for whatever reason and if
that ever does happen what I recommend
doing is just tacking it on to the end
of your next pull workout I'm so if for
whatever reason you don't finish the
workout make yourself accountable to the
program and tack it on at the end of
your next day um so that's what I did
with a few of these Bayesian cable curls
here and that was a wrap so that's
that's it for the commentary we're gonna
grab some food and I'll show you guys
what we get in a minute
[Music]
[Music]
ho-jon fans are gonna be like they just
desecrated all the young fans I think is
good they need to do a class they need a
full-blown Elton John young thug club we
need that to get me goes on there if you
can notice this here I'm trying to grow
out my beard to be a little bit higher
naturally I have this super low beard
line here but it will eventually grow
out if I give it time so what I'm trying
to do
I told stuff about this and I'm gonna
try to grow out like maybe is it maybe
I'm thinking about growing out like a
big beard and like growing my hair out
really long in making like just like a
long hair long beard look for the winter
and then like grow up the chest here you
know we're gonna be in Florida for the
winter it's gonna be hot oh maybe I
won't do that well actually it's not hot
I take it back it doesn't cool down in
Florida like we're in the most northerly
city in Florida true again let me know
what you think is it worth it to go
Viking mode bear mode hair mode hair
fairy mode terrible penalty when I turn
on bulking season though I want to I
want to step up my beard game okay guys
so we're here at the Thai restaurant
here with Stephanie and her mom
Stephanie actually just went to the
bathroom
say hello so this is what I got for an
appetizer these are chicken satay
skewers good thing about doing some
intermittent fasting or intermittent ish
fasting
is that you have a ton of calories left
by the end of the night so this is what
I'm getting from my appetizer and then
I'll show you guys what I get for my
main after this oh and also I got a Thai
beer over here and it's a Steph's
appetizer she's got more that's hot okay
guys here's the main dish I've got some
red curry over here with some rice
Stephanie what you got okay it's just a
chicken with like a basil ginger looks
super good and what do we got going on
over here Patsy you sounds good look at
this for once why was the first one done
what oh so hungry
he's so good obviously I would give this
like a nine point two nine point two a
ten you can get it really good
well I was gonna say the only reason is
cuz there's a crying baby there 0.8 not
a 0.5 knock off the back and then it's
not perfect alright guys just got back
to the Airbnb I'm gonna go check out
this DVD collection over here maybe
flick on a video while I do some emails
or something like that I'm just gonna
give you guys have a look at what they
got here this is like the quintessential
DVD collection it's just I feel like
everybody in there mom owns this exact
collection of movies what was it that I
watched oh I watched lucky number Slevin
last night that's a really good movie I
think was the first time I had seen it
so anyway maybe I'll pick out something
there click on a movie and end the vlog
here thank you guys so much for watching
if you enjoyed the vlog please leave me
a like let me know if you like this kind
of like first-person type of vlogs from
me I know the production value wasn't
the greatest ever especially from those
gym clips but I may do I'm just logging
here on the little canon g7x wall rashon
is in Kelowna but I actually enjoyed
making this video so if you guys like it
just let me know also if you haven't
subscribed yet make sure you hit up the
button over here to subscribe and I'll
have a video over here of my last video
which was a myth-busting on the mind
muscle connection I talked about that a
little bit in this vlog but that one
goes through all the science so make
sure you check that one out and I will
see you guys all here on the weekend
I've got another vlog with John Meadows
on the way so stay tuned for that and
I'll see you guys soon