hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today is video number
six in our series of how to construct a
proper hypertrophy mesocycle
and the way I do it nowadays and I do it
no other way is to use the RP
hypertrophy app which I helped to design
and I think it's awesome and I think
you'll really love it the thing is
though is the app actually releases full
release
June 1st which is coming up like really
soon
if you're seeing this video after June
1st you click the same Link in the
description below in order to access the
app so give that a look
we're going to talk about the science
and underlying philosophy of the
multiple modalities you can use in your
training
there's like six to seven of them if you
count wire up matches different than my
reps we'll get to that in a bit
and all of them you could use with the
app or without the app but if you want
to do a lot better and faster in
training then the app it was designed
exclusively to help you create manage
execute and benefit from hypertrophy
programs so here we go so first up are
straight sets straight sets is just a
term for normal sense to set a 5 to 30
repetitions you rest a normal amount of
time until your cardiovascular uh stress
is low again you're not breathing super
heavy you feel psychologically really
strong the team synergist supportive
muscles are not going to limit you on
your next set like your lower back on a
squat or something like that as your
lower back is nice and healed and then
also the muscle in question can do at
least another five repetitions in the
next set if you started so that amount
of rest which is usually like oh you
know a minute to three minutes in most
situations and then you go and do that
set with the same amount of load that's
what a straight set is and so on the
hypertrophy app over here we've got our
dildo masocycle we can have right now it
says cambered bar bench press we have
one set with 135 pounds and we have a
certain number of reps so you do the set
and then you enter in how many reps you
got and it remember tells you to press
the check in button when you're actually
done but you say you know what I
actually want to add a set so you just
go to ad set and that's how easy it is
it adds a set and notice it's using the
same weight because it assumes straight
sets and you do that set and you get
let's say seven repetitions and then you
go to town we'll check these in later
because the check-ins actually surface
other features that we'll have in later
videos
all right
that's cool but hold on a sec
straight sets are awesome but there's a
set that's very similar to a straight
set that is called a down set and that's
our next modality so down sets are also
just straight sets but with lower weight
why would you lower the weight well
usually lower the weight something like
10 to 20 percent in order to often stay
within the rep range that you want
because as you fatigue you may start to
drop out of the rep range notice here
the camber of our bench we did nine reps
and then we did seven if we keep
cranking along we'll get close to five
and under five real soon and that's just
generally not enough volume not enough
repetitions per set to be as
hypertrophic so we might want to
decrease the weight we have it at 135
right now
we might want to decrease the weight
actually well let me delete this set and
show you guys the feature I'll just show
you the delete feature so uh
let's see delete this exercise hopefully
that works boom all right great
uh I'm trying to scroll with uh Scott's
video guy has an Apple computer laptop
that we're recording on and the the
little scroll cursor button thingy is
backwards Apple you did it backwards
exactly right it's technically speaking
Apple was the first technology in the
market and his windows is backwards
cool
Windows got it right
Han Solo shot first
he really did didn't he's got the video
guy he's a bad person I said you gotta
remember that all right so down sets is
just you want to lower the weight and
you can lower the weight in an arbitrary
amount but generally you want to lower
the weight stay in the same repetition
range or sometime you've had enough
heavy training in an exercise you
actually think you're going to get a
better stimulus to fatigue ratio going a
little bit lighter they could do a bunch
of sets of 12 in the row and then you're
like hey you know man sets of like 18
and to 20 will be really good it'll fry
me out now that I've got my heavy work
in I can go a little lighter so what you
do here here's how you're using the app
functionality you go into a little menu
that occurs with every single exercise
and you actually say duplicate exercise
and it's going to ask you if you want to
repeat until the end of meso you
probably do because you don't want to do
too much one-off stuff the app can
handle all the one-off stuff that you
can throw it at but the best way to
train is consistency week over week so
yeah I'm gonna actually do this every
week and then you hit duplicate exercise
exercise is duplicated
all it does it just slots in another set
at a new weight that you want so what
you can do here is say well actually
okay so we already had
135 pounds I'm gonna go lighter oop I
went up to 575 my bad damn the Apple
thing Scrolls real fast so let's say
it's a hundred but now
you have a hundred
and boom there it is so 135 for two sets
we do a hundred let's say we get uh oh I
don't know
I'm just going to use the manual drag
Apple computer go fuck yourself
JK so boom we got that checked in and
everything's good to go that's it
that is how down sets work and if you
want to do another down set you simply
go here and you hit duplicate exercise
again and it brings it up
awesome and that function of duplicating
exercise which really means it's the
same exercise but you can pick the
weight differently again takes us into
our third modality which is drop sets
drop sets are just like down sets in
every conceivable way except for the
fact that the rest time between the sets
isn't normal as it is in down sets it is
constrained to something like OG about
five seconds
because what you're trying to do is get
really close to failure
you cannot do any more repetitions or
many more repetitions when you get close
to failure so what you do is you reduce
the weight such that you can get another
five to ten reps and then reduce the
weight again with no rest such that you
can get another five to turn up so
typically we get 10 to 20 drops in
weight over something like three to six
different sets and if you're going to do
that the way to keep track of it is
really easy and we can actually do a
demo here with the barbell bent row
let's say we have the barbell Mount row
and we want to do a situation where we
do drop sets now that's probably not the
greatest exercise to do drop sets with
that you'll just get really tired but
you know as another exercise uh we would
uh we would be jamming so you know what
here we'll say this
and then we would say
remove set just to illustrate what it
looks like with drop sets so we'll say
we'll start this exercise with 70 pounds
or even we'll go heavier how about that
oh boy this is getting really crazy 100
pounds and it's two IRS the goal great
then what we do is we use the same
function which is going to be a
Workhorse for you the duplicate exercise
function you only have to do this once
because it'll stay around for the rest
of your mesocycle
now we have another set of Barbara
Monroe with the weight we can choose we
go up here again
we hit duplicate exercise again it's
going to repeat again now we have three
we go here again we do duplicate
exercise now we have four
so if you do this before you show up to
the gym or when you go to the gym 100
and then we say well G 100 was fine I
think I'm going to drop to 80. that's
probably going to work for me and then
I'm going to drop to whoop
Apple computer 60. and then after that
I'm going to drop to
well the bar really
so but we'll pretend this is some kind
of cable machine or something 40. and
all of a sudden
we have a hundred set at 100. set at 80.
a set at 60 and a set at 40.
and as you go through the weeks of the
app the app will periodize this for you
so it'll give you the same rep range
targets again or increase the Reps by
one or it'll ask you to go to 105 pounds
next week 85 65 45 and so on and you can
always add more sets to this or take
sets away boom drop set solved so so far
you can do three things in the app
straight sets
down sets drop sets let's see what else
we got all right
giant sets now to be clear I'm using the
term giant set differently than most
people would
many people have called these Marathon
sets but I think giant set also works
giant sets are not where you do like
three or four exercises in a row that's
a superset that period okay you can't
call it a giant set if it's multiple
different exercises it's a bunch of
different sets
giant scent is when you set a really
high rep Target
and you do a bunch of mini sets there to
get to that rep Target so let's say I
want to do 50 repetitions total in
our example here would just be like the
camber bar bench press so I'm going to
take this and I'm going to simplify it
by removing a set
and so once that we have here let's say
we set the rep goal as 50.
currently are topped out upgraded
versions of the app probably by the time
you see this will be able to go up to
100 Reps don't worry there's a work
around there if it doesn't do that and
let's say we have 135 pounds on the bar
what our goal is is to do as many sets
with normal rest breaks one to three
minutes all the four Factor rest model
checked off
until we get to 50. why why not just
like do five sets of ten what the hell
is wrong with this well it could be 30
40 50 60 whatever number you want you
pick the total rep goal to get the
volume that you need
and then what happens is you don't have
to focus on matching reps week to week
to week why is that a bad thing I
thought it was a good thing it is a good
thing but for some exercises on which
you're really struggling with technique
you're really struggling with a mind
muscle connection you find that when you
try to use your 10 last week the app
says I need to do 11 reps this week I'm
just trying a gun for those reps and I
have a real hard time detaching myself
from trying super hard and focusing on
the Mind muscle connection when there's
a focus on that I forget I don't even I
start
having trouble making sure I'm going
hard enough to get where I need to go
and I just get so obsessed that I just
start pushing hard and I lose all
contact with my mind muscle connection
with giant sense you have 50 total reps
to do and it does not matter how many
sets you do them in because nobody's
counting including you all you count is
the Reps you get per set and then you
add them and you add them and you add
them so you say okay I got 25 reps then
I got another five reps then I got
another five reps I'm up to 30. I guess
I've got you know 20 more reps to go
until I hit 50. in each one of those
many sets you can stop whenever you want
which means that every single rep you
can focus only on the technique and mind
muscle connection and not have to worry
about thinking of pushing yourself hard
there is a time to push yourself hard
but don't worry the volume will push you
anyway once you're really clued in on
that exercise you can always switch to
Conventional training straight sets down
sets drops that's all that stuff but
Giants that's a really great way to just
get in a lot of work without a ton of
pressure to match performance every time
and
how do you do these so the first thing
you want to do is you want to add an
exercise note and you're going to type
in
giant set
40 reps
you're going to save that
and you are going to pin the note so it
appears every single week it'll also
screw up these sets don't worry we'll
debug that
giant set and I spelled it wrong isn't
that great
I'll just fix that right now look how
easy this access is by the way this
works identically on your phone and
laptop which is really nice
here I'm gonna go and say okay I've got
40.
as the rep goal
and because I know it's a giant set I
just keep going until I hit 40 reps
next week
it'll come up and say Giants have 40
reps next week you'll go in you go aha I
want some progress so I say it's oop
that's a little much
I say it's 45 reps
I update
and then I take this and I manually
slide it to here
that's my new Total rep Target and I do
it all by myself
now if you absolutely have no interest
in counting and adding reps in your head
you can use the duplicate exercise
function
to just add in
another set of cambered borrows and you
have a giant set labeled on all of them
and then you just go and do the mini set
and have the weight the same in each one
or actually if the weight's the same in
each one I'm an idiot you can just add
sets if you'd like there's two different
ways to do this and you just instead of
saying 45 you got the 45 up here you can
do a set of your first set of 38 let's
say your first set you really went wild
it was 32 then you know you say okay I
need another you know I think a 10 and
then whatever it adds up to 45 at the
end
and then you can do it like that the
thing is the auto regulation of the app
will try to increase this load for you
or increase the rep goal for you so
you'll have to do a little bit of
checking to see what your goal is every
week and making sure that this all adds
up super easy to do and again this is a
huge advantage in training but if you're
really too focused on trying to match
the Reps you can just go for the total
and here's the thing
your reps next week you can get 26 in
the first set because you got so focused
on a technique you didn't want to push
it Ultra hard or the Reps got harder
because your Technique is so much better
because good technique makes the Reps
harder not easier in bodybuilding and
hypertrophy training in powerlifting
good technique makes the Reps easier and
I purchase your training it's the other
way around because you're exposing the
muscle more tension in a less
advantageous position
so you got 26 here now all these just
need to rise up to the rest of them or
you just add another set who cares all
you need is that 45 tour so that's
pretty straightforward
all right next up are Maya rep sets my
repsets let me uh you know illustrate
another function just add a new exercise
so this doesn't get confusing
uh triceps why not
and we have a little menu here oh it's a
dildo press Isn't that cool I love it
we'll say we want to do a cable overhead
tricep extension why not and sure we'll
do it old as long
and where is that going I think it was
shuttled down to the but
um perfect cable overhead tricep
extension
and we want to do a my rep sector what
the hell is a my rep set my reps or when
you do a first set of oh 10 to 20 15 to
20 repetitions
you rest three to five and or five to
ten seconds there's a few different ways
to skin the cat the cat by the way hates
all the ways I think I've said that
before
and then you rest a tiny little bit and
then you do another set and another set
and potentially another set
each one of those breaks is the Maya
repress break in each one of those sets
is a my rep mini set
and what you do is you take multiple
approaches close to failure so it'll
look like you get 15 reps then you get
seven then you get four then you get
three then you're done
how many Rush breaks you take is
arbitrary it's up to you the first time
you ever do my reps I would recommend
just one break
so you do 15 reps or something 17 you
rest three to five seconds shake it out
and then do another set of like close to
failure let's say it's six
just that alone you did two sets but it
took you almost the same amount of time
as one set but you had two distinct
approaches near failure which means it's
going to be more hypertrophic than one
set
but take almost the same amount of time
as one said because if you rested a full
amount of time and you did all those
reps over again called lead in reps you
did you know 10 reps and then the last
four were hard and the second set those
first ten reps absolutely do stimulate
muscle growth but by a small margin not
as much as the last five repetitions
which are the money so Maya reps really
take advantage of the fact that when you
train closer to failure the results
slightly more muscle growth stimulus so
the first set you get rid of all of your
lead-in reps all the sets after be it
one two three or however many Maya rep
sets you want to do
all the ones after are real close to
failure and that means they're usually
going to be sets of five to ten often
closer to five and even a little less
than five but that's okay we usually say
don't trade with less than five reps
that's if they're five heavy reps and if
you just do one set at a time and rest
these you know you can do sets of three
and if they're all the three reps are
the ones very close to failure and it's
with a load that is really like your 20
rep max it's super stimulative so the
way that you would do my reps is you
would of course add an exercise note and
just say Mayo rep
to well let's start with one break one
break
so that means that you do as many reps
as you can rest
spin the note and after that you do
another little mini set and then you're
done then you rest a normal amount of
time and potentially you can do another
Maya rep set if you want
that's your your game you can do as many
of those as you want remember they catch
up quick
so my recommendation is this the first
time you ever try my reps just do one
break and just do two total sets that
means you do like 17 reps
rest three to five seconds do another
five
what you'll have is let's say it's what
weight are we doing here
20 reps you're not that strong on the
cable overhead tricep extension and
you did 17 reps and then five so that's
22 total reps so we just go in
and we hit 22 here but you know it's a
Myra one break so you know that you got
22 reps with one break so next week
whatever the Raptor weight's gonna
increase the Reps might increase a
little bit you know you still get one
rep break to hit this number so you can
have that in mind and if you want to do
another set we just add a set same
applies Maya rep one break and let's say
there you got a total number of reps
over two sets that was like oh you got
just like eight and 19 reps and then
that's it
then you know
those are my reps related which is why
it's six or seven modalities are Maya
rep match sets my match sets is when you
do the first set as a straight set so
let's make sure we label this in our
note I'm just pretending we're gonna do
this now mile rep match
that's all you have to say for my rep
match which is why it's a really cool
training modality in my opinion I sort
of invented it I guess uh better get
fagrally from Norway definitely um was
the one that coined the Maya reps term
and uh generally this all falls under
rest pause it's all rest pause training
technically but the specific ways to do
rest pause
so if I say I use 20 pounds and I get
16 reps on a first straight set and then
I rest a normal amount of time what the
fuck are the Maya reps hold on a sec the
Maya reps start after the straight set
the first set in a my rep match scheme
is a straight set
the second set is going to be Auto
targeted you're going to put in ahead of
time when you're using your app 16 reps
hold on a second how can you guarantee
you're going to do 16 reps do you like
get tired and only do 14 and then you're
like fuck I had to change it to 14. no
because if you get tired and stop at 14.
you rest for three to five seconds and
then you hit another whatever number of
reps takes you to that first reps number
so with 16 and then 16 again which could
be 14 and two or you got lucky and get
16 again however many my match sets you
do is going to be done with the same
weight to the same number of reps every
single time and here's the kicker as you
get more tired as you go the number of
my rep breaks it takes per set to get to
that first total number increases so I
might be able to get to 16 well I'm
definitely getting 16 in one set in the
first set
in the second set it's going to take me
too many sets to get there 14 and 2. in
the third set it might take me three I
might get to ten and then I get four and
then I get two that is a whole crapload
of approaches to failure
in just three sets
it's like six approaches to failure in
three sets that's very very similar
careful with these my match sets because
they can nuke you if you do my match I'm
like stiff legged deadlift or something
you may never walk again because it's
way too much stimulus too much volume
because it's 16 16 or whatever thing you
got the first set and it's a crapload of
approaches to failure so the relative
effort on average is insanely High
Myra match is an excellent excellent
tool for muscles that just seem to be
able to handle a beating and need a ton
of volume for me those muscles are side
delts rear delts if I'm ever even
training them though most of the reared
out training comes from back work
forearms forearm curls biceps
sometimes people's calves can take a
huge beating
this way you are taking normal sets
quote unquote to get there but each one
has so much a failure approach in it you
get cooked insanely high amount of
stimulus
and again when you start doing these
start with two
unless you really know yourself well and
you've done these before then when
you're doing the hypertrophy app you can
start with however many you know already
works
all right lastly
supersets
there are a few different types of
supersets the hypertrophy app here can
do all of them but there's generally one
that's a very very good hypertrophy and
one that's good for what would call
adult Fitness or saving time in the gym
you can do supersets that are adult
Fitness and those are pretty simple you
generally pick muscles that are Agonist
antagonists so we'll just build one now
for shits and giggles let me see uh here
I'm just gonna go and scroll up top
and add an exercise
and
it says hey you're adding a lot of
exercise recommended Max is eight the
app will tell you fun stuff like that so
you don't do too much and just do a
bunch of junk volume but hey I'm just
testing it out stay calm so I go biceps
and then I'm going to do cable curls and
I will repeat until the end and I'm
going to add that exercise so that's
dope I'm going to scroll down
so now I have cable overhead tricep
extensions and cable curls and I'm doing
three sets of each
for the superset
the reason I'm doing cable curls is
because I want to save time I'm going to
do overhead tricep extensions I'm going
to rest basically not at all I'm going
to switch to Cable curls and I'm going
to hit as many cable corrupts as I can
then I'm going to rest a normal amount
of time even maybe like 30 seconds to a
minute or so a little less than normal
because while I'm cable curling my
triceps are actually resting
and so as long as these exercises aren't
too fatiguing to the system
if they are you get a great cardio
workout what you end up getting is you
get your whole arm trained biceps and
triceps in a very short time so you do
tricep extensions No Rest cable curls
rest 30 seconds back to tricep
extensions set two camera curl set two
how do you know that these are supersets
well you just use the notes function the
ever ubiquitous nose function and you
say
superset
with
cable curls
update
okay so we have that labeled
and then
super set oop I can't type
typing is hard superset after try
extensions
update and then now I know when I look
next week into this I go cable tricep
overhead oh it's super cable curls right
here and this supersets for tricep
extensions perfect
so as I go through let's say I get again
weird example 20 reps uh sorry wait 20
pounds for 16 reps hit okay here and
then as soon as I go and do 10 pounds
this is embarrassing for six reps oh
that was a nasty superset then I clicked
this green check mark I think other
stuff could come up nope no questions
for now and then I know that I've done
both of these this is what I would do
out in my 30 seconds rest then I come
back do another set check it in check it
and check it in and it just does it like
that so every single method of modality
of training you can do with the tiniest
amount of labeling with the app now as
we develop the hypertrophy app which
we'll develop for its entire lifetime I
think we're probably going to make sure
it cuts to make this stuff easier but as
you can tell it's already pretty goddamn
easy and not only this but because we
have the notes function you can add and
delete any exercises you want you can
add as many sets of different weight as
you want and subtract them you really
have carte blush do all kinds of stuff
that I might not even thought of and we
really did design the hypertrophy app to
be what we call the universal program
Builder
four hypertrophy programs it can build
anything you want it can build as many
days as you want to the plan any
modalities that you want anything at all
and it'll function every single time
exactly the spec just makes your
training life way easier so
folks get down there right in the top
Link in the description sign up for the
training app it will be here very soon
people already testing it out the Beta
release has already occurred hopefully
this video is recorded a little bit
beforehand but hopefully that's already
happened people hopefully love the app
hopefully they're addicted to it
hopefully they've left their families to
spend more time with the app isn't that
crazy people get your priorities
straight and and get two apps get two
accounts so that I can get my more money
with Lamborghinis you guys know the rest
next time next week next Tuesday we will
come back and have another chat about
how to optimize your Technique in your
hypertrophy plan to make sure your
joints are safe over the long term to
promote joint health changing exercises
and we'll demo the app again folks see
them