welcome back your friendly neighborhood
Sports Science doctor back here today
with wolf coaching reviewing someone
else's training today I'm reviewing
fellow Sports Science Doctor Mike
Israel's training and whether or not for
hypertrophy I think it's optimal
although I've been featured on Mike's
channel before I wanted to give my
honest opinion on his training so
without further Ado let's get into it
I'm feeling pretty good but uh we'll
find out what's going on we got pull-ups
ass sistant Pull-Ups for more volume and
slightly high repetitions and then cable
flexion rows we are going to warm up
with assisted Pull-Ups for regular
pull-ups because well we weigh like 200
whatever OD of pounds got to warm up so
first off doing pull-ups and then
straight up assisted pull-ups may or may
not be a good idea depending on the
layout of your overall week it can make
sense if for example on other back days
you're very heavy with the rows you do a
lot of volume on rows but not so much in
terms of vertical pulling likewise if
you're too to heavy to get more than a
few sets of at least five reps on
pull-ups following it up with some
assisted pull-ups can allow you to get
more effective sets in for your lats
however outside of these two
circumstances I generally wouldn't
program this I think the stimulus that
you get from pull-ups versus assisted
pull-ups is overwhelmingly similar so in
most cases it is a little bit redundant
and I would rather have someone do a
different exercise that might for
example hit the lats more in a
lengthened position like for example a
dumbbell pullover we're going to start
doing that right now and if you really
like this kind of video a little Vlog
style training session we do these all
the time in the members section so this
is kind of like one of those little like
oh the members get it and you get it as
well but if you want more of this kind
of stuff give uh some thought to signing
up for the membership it's like five
bucks uh a month and you get uh an extra
video every week and every now and again
one of these videos will be this Vlog
style training we recorded a bunch of
them uh we're going to record a bunch
more in the future so come along for the
ride the only five buck exclusive
membership I have from Dr Mike Isel is
his only f the only one worth having
make sure you check it out thing
that's pretty cool in
warm-ups is you instantly realize the
utility of the
warm-up cuz typically the first warm-up
set and I'm using 160
lbs of extra assistance which is a
ton typically the warm-up
set feels like I'm so
weak
and my joints are so
creaky that the idea that this would
instead be my first work set is
wild I would underperform like crazy I'd
be like six reps off of what I could
normally do couple things here one I do
think that if you want to warm up doing
it on something like an assisted machine
before body weight exercise is a great
idea you're not going into your set of
bench unprepared just having benched say
225 before you work set of 225 so why
would you do it on pull-ups or dips
right categorically I think that's a
good idea however to peel back a bit of
a layer here the importance of warmup of
performance specifically in hypertrophy
training is not super clear yet there's
been some evidence calling it into
question whether or not it actually
increases performance indeed there's
some thinking that when you're doing a
set of say 10 or more reps typically the
first few reps of that set will kind of
warm you up or potentiate you for the
rest of the set now you don't get this
effect with strength training where
you're doing often 1 to five reps during
your sets but for hypertrophy training
the importance of w up may be a little
bit lesser compared to something like
strength training probably go to the
actual pullup station you'll see in a
sec it's not that great and
uh then I will uh probably do about two
reps get the feel for it and then next
set after as it works set we're shooting
for all around 10 doing here think it's
wide enough yeah oh I hate feeling con
strange let me
try works yeah yeah I personally find
that those combo dip and pull-up
stations are the worst in terms of
allowing you to move around in fact I've
even had to do pull-ups or dips on the
assisted pull-up or dip station and
that's even worse because often times
you don't get a full stretch that being
said it might just be because I'm
relatively tall at 62 you may not have
these issues quick aside if you're under
7 ft get off my channel immediately
goodbye I'll just use straps on anything
I need to even hypothetically get a
small benefit from I'll use the [ __ ] if
you think about it for a while and
you're like why am I in here is it to do
some ego [ __ ] with my grip or is it
to get a big back the answer kind of
clarifies itself as Angus Bradley
recently put it if you can RDL without
straps or do back training without
straps it's not that your grip is strong
is that your back and hamstrings are
weak if you've been training for more
than say 6 or 12 months you should
probably be using using straps on all of
your deadlift work most if not all of
your back work ultimately whenever
you're doing a compound movement like
the RDL or like a row or like a pull
down or a pullup you're not really
trying to train your forearms optimally
if you were you'd be doing wrist curls
so try and maximize the stimulus that
your back gets by having it it be the
limiting factor versus your forarms
don't be silly use
[Music]
straps
[Music]
I think the way Mike is doing his
Pull-Ups here is totally fine right he's
not getting a clean chin Over the Bar
he's kind of swinging a little bit to
get his chin Over the Bar And as far as
H pery goes that's probably fine indeed
as I mention way too often there is
research looking at the lengthen
position specifically or lengthen
partials and whether or not those are
good for hypertrophy and so skipping
that top position where your lats are
shortened probably doesn't make it worse
in fact it might even make the Pull-Up a
little bit better for hypertrophy by
having you spend more time in that
lengthen position my Ascent concentric
pretty
explosive which is nice to generate a
lot of muscle activation that way not
mandatory how I like to do them but the
Ecentric especially at the bottom is
slow going to really really milk that
stretch and also a fast reversal at the
bottom slight increase in injury risk
and for what to do more reps why to grow
more muscle yes but what if you did few
reps but did each rep better you grow
probably the same amount of muscle from
that with a net reduction and injury
risk you're kind of like winning on all
sides there the only loss you're taking
is you type in seven instead of six reps
or whatever six instead of seven in your
notebook or in your RP training app
coming soon
so a lot of stuff in the gym is kind of
ego driven by default and you sort of
don't process that like oh why am I
trying so hard to get 12 reps on here at
the expense of my technique and you
think about it longer you're like cuz 12
reps damn it and then you're like wait a
minute
if the technique is good the progression
should result from just me getting
stronger over time we get a zero in on
really really good technique and make
sure that the Reps come as they come I
almost completely agree with Dr M here's
why I don't necessarily agree one I
don't think for now we have the evidence
to claim that for sure pausing at the
bottom will reduce your injury risk I
want to make clear that this might just
be an absence of evidence thing AKA we
just don't have the studies looking at
it versus evidence of of absence AKA we
have studies looking at it but it have
failed to show an effect in favor of
pausing for injury risk it is more so
just absence of evidence however until
we have that evidence I'm personally not
comfortable saying that it will reduce
injury risk there's a chance and I think
it's reasonable to assume as much but I
just wouldn't claim it with much
confidence as far as being explosive out
of that bottom position as far as
controlling the Ecentric more in that
bottom position music to my ears I love
hearing it I think controlling the
Ecentric more as you reach into that
lengthen position I think pausing in
that lengthen position and I think being
explosive out of that lengthen position
on the concentric or the lifting phase
all probably make for slightly better
hypertrophy stimulus so if you can do it
do it time for assisted pull-ups same
grip the big benefit of assisted
pull-ups is twofold one you get more
repetitions per set which can a lot of
times put you in that rep range that's
more conducive to growth at this point
I'd be doing sets of four and three High
better to do sets of 5 to 10 but I'm
going to actually get into the 10 to 15
range with the
assistance the other
benefit is that the assisted pull-up
slows the movement down for you and puts
it on Rails so you can think less about
the mechanics of pulling and more about
how the mind muscle connection is
feeling are you getting that good Peak
contraction are you really letting that
stretch pull the muscle apart the Mind
muscle connection and a assistant
pull-ups it's not just helping you with
weight and you just do the same old
pull-up that you can it helps you with
the weight so you can focus more on your
Technique on your mind muscle connection
specifically not your gross motor
technique I think that's a really really
big thing and if you do assistant
pull-ups right it's a light bulb moment
you're like oh [ __ ] this isn't just
pull-ups with assistance it's a little
bit more than that again I'm not sure I
would include pull-ups and assisted
pull-ups even with the reasons he just
mentioned as to how pull-ups and
assisted pull-ups do differ I still
don't think I would include them both in
the same session but I do think that if
you can't get another five pull-ups as I
mentioned earlier including them does
make sense if you're trying to get more
sets in with that very similar movement
pattern on the topic of assisted pull-up
machines I would look for one that
allows you to get a full stretch but
doesn't necessarily allow you to get a
full squeeze being somewhat taller and
lankier myself usually a machine either
gives me a full squeeze but not a full
stretch or it gives me a full stretch
but not a full squeeze based on the
research on lengthen training I would
opt for the one that gives you a full
stretch but not a full squeeze because
lengthen partials probably do benefit
you especially on back training where
the resistance curve of most exercises
is such that you're missing a ton of
lengthen stimulus if all you do are full
range of motion reps
really critical things to look for an
assisted pull-up machine are one good
range of motion especially bottom
stretch two is very smooth
lubrication an assisted pull-up machine
aren't the only thing Dr Mike and I
engage in that needs to have a good
range of motion and smooth lubrication
you hear me not bad just really trying
to focus on following the movement up is
just up
whatever following it down feeling my
lat stretch underload and really pull
apart really helps me make sure I'm
preferentially activating my lat system
the thing that slows it down so on the
way up I'm kind of using my entire pull
complex I don't care lats biceps
everything on the way up I try to
preferentially activate my
lats which really kind of is like a mini
uh Ecentric accentuated overload
training because if I just use my lats
alone tried to however effective that is
to get up I'd probably get a few few
reps this way I get more reps and each
one of them e eccentrically overloading
to my lats it's a big deal
I think it on the margin may may do a
little something extra so I like the way
Mike just framed that he said on the
margins I think it might do a little bit
something extra and I think it's
important to acknowledge that when it
comes to Ecentric overload training
we're essentially accentuating that
Ecentric by adding more weight to it
versus the concentric phase or what have
you when it comes to man muscle
connection we don't have a ton of
evidence in favor of these things really
changing hypertrophy very much I have a
whole video on the Mind muscle
connection here you can check that out
the long story short is we have one
study looking at hypertrophy and its
findings aren't even that convincing
again just like with pausing an injury
risk it may be more of a matter of
absence of evidence versus evidence of
an absense of difference with mind
muscle connection versus focusing on
just moving the weight but it's always
just worth bearing in mind how much
evidence do we have for this specific
training approach in this case it's not
a whole lot I'm sure some of you are
watching this
video and you're
like I do a bunch of
pull-ups I do a bunch of assistant
Pull-Ups the only thing left is cable
rows we'll talk about those in a bit
it's like three exercises sort of maybe
like
two two and a
half it's not exciting training it's not
not in this
case but the way Jared and I construct
our understanding of training is we want
results want the best possible long-term
results and if according to our
knowledge of sport Science and our
experience and feedback
multiple straight sets close to failure
of the same or similar movements seem to
give us the best results that's what
we're doing is it maximally entertaining
for the viewer or for ourselves using a
bunch of different machines different
angles [ __ ] man no no shade but I saw
someone uh I follow on the internet did
a back workout it was like 5 by 12
seemingly like six different movements I
was like holy [ __ ] that's just a lot of
different different moving around it was
short rest and it wasn't close to
fail but it was definitely more exciting
to watch is as a viewer if you watch
that back workout you're like wow
there's kinds of different stuff going
on this is cool you can like learn a lot
from it different angles different
machines he uses he used some of the
same machines but very different pulling
Styles it's kind of like
a no take it's like a car commercial
when you see a car it drives in the city
it picks up the kids it drives in the
country it goes up and down Mountain
Roads picks up a goat you know [ __ ] like
that uh drives by a lake drives on the
sun and you're like wow this car can do
a lot for sure when you actually buy the
car you're you're using it to go to work
and drop your kids off at school you're
probably not hitting any [ __ ]
mountain ranges on your
way and that's the difference between
driving a car for utility versus driving
a car to show off so our workouts are
very utilitarian in the sense that
they're purely
utilitarian the utility from them is
maximum muscle growth ACC creation over
time you can learn a little bit at least
to like the monotony to embrace it to
see five sets of assisted pull-ups on
your program and be like I like this and
someone's like really it's the same
thing you're like I like the fact that I
plug in and really dig into the monotony
and the pain and the
brutality and I know I'm going to get
the best
results and I learn to like the thing
that gives me the best results I very
much agree with m a few things
one it's important to acknowledge that
whether or not your exercises change
week to week isn't going to be the most
important factor indicating whether or
not you're progressing it's going to be
things like volume relative intensity
consistency those sorts of things so if
changing exercises week to week allows
you to be wildly more consistent then
yeah it may just be worth doing if
you're someone who just enjoys changing
exercises a lot which then leads to
Greater adherence it might be worth
doing but on principle assuming that in
enjoyment isn't really a factor here yes
I think keeping exercises similar week
to week is a good idea another thing Dr
Mike and I agree about here is if you
see a program that has the same set and
rep scheme for every exercise within a
session and there is a ton of redundancy
within that session you know the same
movement over and over again seemingly
that is likely a bad sign usually it
means the program wasn't really designed
thoughtfully in fact the last time I did
more than about two or three exercises
for a given muscle group in a single
session was when I was about 15 years
old and training for the first time
doing body part
[Music]
splits way I'm doing this exercise is I
push my hips back really far I try to
lean forward a little to get that Ultra
deep stretch and then Arch but not lean
back so my spine is perpendicular to the
ground with cable rows or any chest
supported row or even dumbbell or
barbell rows even t-bo Rose Helm you
have one decision to make either you
purposely let your spine flex and extend
in order to Target the lower back a
little bit more or by lower back
actually I mean the whole back because
your reector spin muscle which most
people refer to as your lower back
muscles actually extend all the way up
your spine pretty much if you want to
Target those a little bit more and
potentially to the detriment of other
back muscles which may no longer become
the limiting factor then you can flex
and extend the spine during the Centric
and the concentric phase respectively
the reason I don't just go around
recommending this to everyone is because
most people when they think they're
flexing and extending their spine
whether it's during AB training or
whether during rows they're actually
flexing and extending their hips so
they're actually using their glutes
hamstrings and adductors to move the
weight instead of using their back
muscle personally the best way to do it
I think is to reserve spinal flexion and
extension for machine chest supported
grows or any chest CH supported row
where you can actually isolate movement
of the spine a lot better than you would
during a freee movement for most people
who've been told to keep their back
straight for most of their training
carea learning how to flex and extend
their spine on a freee movement first
can be quite challenging whereas if you
teach them on a chest supported row it
becomes a lot more intuitive you can't
really move your hips around that much
[Music]
anyways
[Music]
for what it's worth I think Mike's
technique on pull-ups assisted pull-ups
and cable rows was very solid right like
he had an emphasis on the lengthen
position through a Tempo he generally
didn't pause in the shorten position
which is also good he genuinely had an
appropriate Ecentric uration and mostly
or exclusively involved the muscles he
was trying to Target so overall in terms
of technique I'm very impressed 17
repetition no JK 16 Mis
raddit uh back is pumped
plumped feeling swole joint pain is
great
man if everything was like vertical
pulling for High Reps be sweet for a
second there I thought I was watching a
Sam video with the back pumped comment
on a serious note I think 16 or 17 reps
this late into the session on cable rows
Maybe a little bit too high of a rep
range for most people cable Rose much
above 20 reps I think will typically be
limited by cardiovascular ability or
systemic fatigue more so than local
musculature if I'm going above 20 reps
it'll almost always be on a highly
supported stable exercise like a
dumbbell pullover which is also an
isolation exercise or like some sort of
chest supported row of some kind as
opposed to something that you have to
stabilize a little bit more like a cable
row well that was my reaction to Dr Mike
isal doing some back training overall to
be honest this might be the best
reaction yet I would have to give him
like a nine yeah a 9 out of 10 it's very
solid right the reason I'm not giving
him a full 10 points and this is a bit
nitpicky I agree but this was released
about a year ago at the time there was
already fairly substantial evidence in
favor of length and partials and so
especially with a muscle like the back
which does typically get challenged most
at the shorten position I think that's
where length and partials have the
greatest applicability or the greatest
scope to enhance muscle growth and so it
would have been cool to see some L
partials in here but ultimately most of
the information in here the techniques
certainly they were all excellent the
only reservation I have with some of the
information that was given was that some
things were stated a bit more
confidently than I think we should at
this stage with the evidence we do have
at any rate only love for Dr Mike that's
been the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe if you
appreciate the new setup you know what
I'm saying
and I'll see you guys my subscribers in
that next one peace