[Music]
uh Dr Mike we need a full day of
eating no no fuck it fuck you I don't do
full days of eating I don't even do
partial days of eating the Dr Mike we
need it there is no we motherfucker it's
just you behind the keyboard you have no
friends I'm not even your friend we're
parasocial all right welcome welcome to
the the but the Butler area there's
Butlers everywhere even though you can't
see them full day of eating I'm going to
be training twice today it's 9:46 a.m. I
usually will eat earlier but I didn't
because I have to I had to wait to set
this up in any case um I'm going to be
training twice today I'm going to be
doing plenty of work so it's kind of a
full day of eating a little bit of uh a
little Grand Tour kind of what I do I
was going to say every day but on
weekday won't you come with me and you
can learn so much like what I eat for
for a full day
and I don't know what people get out of
these videos but sure shit you're going
to tell us in the comments let's do
it I'm going to take pills and powders
and then I'm going to make a shake and
then we're going to go train that'll be
meal one as that shake but meal zero is
pills potions and powders cuz we all
know bodybuilding it's nothing to do
with that I got warm water that's what I
take my powders and pills with because
it's cold in the morning it tastes great
that's why I do it no that's backwards
and I always want to make sure I don't
do the wrong thing when I'm in here
which is why it's very important to keep
your propaganda close I'll take this
which is NN nicotinamide mononucleotide
it's a apparently a kind of an um an
aging situation last I looked I found
the literature relatively compelling so
I'm giving it a shot we got creatine
monohydrate the only kind of creatine
that works dependably well about five G
here m H and then we take the rest of
the
pills so what I like to do is um drink
fullsize Clean Machine Dog detergent so
I take CBD every
morning uh that I'm on prep and I'm
currently on a test prep so I'm not
seeing how the Body Works taking the
usual um fun not so fun supplements and
doing the whole prep as if it was a real
prep um two weeks out currently
everything's feeling pretty good I'm not
trying to get super prean just kind of
trying to test some concept and I weigh
245 lbs this morning so I'm fucking
enormous which is sweet but you see the
special sport supplements they make your
brain go not so nice things they're
actually neurod degenerative and CBD is
actually neuroprotective and it um
really really reduces my anxiety and I
get crazy anxiety off gear what's gear
search that for Google then I take my
daily am pills
multivitamin multi mineral some neut
Tropics blood pressure medication you
got to take care of that shit when
you're on tons of gear metformin for
blood glucose that uh don't take
anything I am taking take stuff that you
need to take and if you're not enhan
don't take anything at all I wish I was
in that position but I'm not so
basically everything I take is to manage
various side effects from uh from
steroids and growth hormone all right I
took my pills now I'm going to make my
shake I'm going to go do a workout now
it'll be my first workout of the day
which today is legs and I have to make
sure to have my nutrition for the
workout now an INT workout Shake is not
mandatory but my level of intervention I
think it's uh optimal on the margins so
what I'm going to do is take this I'm
going to fill it halfway with water I'm
going to fill the rest of the way with
this protein shake which I think is
really nice protein 20 different
chemical way to make water they just
attach protein to it JK it's a way
protein shake um and then Gatorade so
I'm going to do 30 G of carbohydrate
from Gatorade 15 g of protein from this
protein this is going to be my intro
Shake I'm going to sip it during my
training finish what I don't have sipped
after and then have my first
post-workout Meal which uh I'll see you
guys for in just a little
[Music]
bit
[Music]
this meal is supposed to be 60 protein
post-workout 15 fats and 190 carbs I
have some uh breakfast cereal that I
want to eat though and it's lower in fat
and higher in carbage is actually good
for a post-workout meal so what I did is
I manually adjusted the RP diet coach
app Sil 60 protein 10 fats but 200 g of
carbs so minus 5 fats plus 10 carbs
almost The Identical calories this is uh
isopure rich man's protein it's a
hydrolysate it's 25 protein zero carb
zero fat so that is really intense very
very Ultra easy to count multiv vein
it's good for you it'll prevent you from
having btis oh I think I don't know it's
kind of a lot of cereal 16 ounces of
milk about 16 ounces there that rounds
out our
needs 60
protein 200
carbs 10 fats all right just finish legs
finish making this meal gonna sit down
and uh start eating it I'm sure we'll
get some b-roll that well uh see you
guys in a
[Music]
b RP diet coach app says I need a shake
for my next workout we did some other
work we did some sit down YouTube stuff
and now we are on to this next PM
session workout which means I need to
make Shake again same Shake as last time
to keep it nice and simple
swish and we are ready to work it
[Music]
out train consume Shake now it's time
for the meal I'm going to make both of
my meals both of my next two meals I
have three left at at the same time
because like all the stuff's here in the
same place and it's basically the same
meal the macros are just nominally
different I
need 50 and then 60 gr of protein 10 and
then 15 gram of fat and 85 and 85 gram
of carbs and my lovely wife makes
um chicken thighs and they're amazing
because chicken thighs have like six gr
of fat for every 25 g of protein that's
like three more grams of fat than
regular chicken breast but makes it
taste like a trillion times better and
you also need fats in your diet so I've
been eating a lot of chicken thighs
lately and you can fucking tell in my
biceps brother again I do not fret over
the fucking minute values here that's uh
some something to do for insane people
so I'm going to cut up the chicken so I
cut it up longitudinally first then I
cut it up in little tiny pieces
basically bite-sized pieces a bit
smaller you would
say it's a thankless job like hey be
successful and get tons of money and
then you're just standing cutting up
fucking Chicken in your own kitchen
nobody to love you nobody to call your
friend no hope for the future just dead
memories oh we want chickens the thing
is Mommy feeds are the chickens now the
broccoli SLO you need veggies doctors
say they're good for you we do fiber
things and keep you
regular why e plenty of them on prep
plenty of them on muscle game
phase one of these meals I cap off and
I'm going to put away in the fridge for
later and the other of these meals I am
going to insert ever so
meticulously into a device exclusively
designed to cook food put this mug in
there what I'll do after is I'll put
some seasoning on it mix in some rice we
got ourselves a
meal I'm going to take more carbs in
this meal than in the next meal CU next
meal will be a little too close to bed
to get that carb energy so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to
dump a bit more carbs into here and what
I'm going to do let's check this out
handy dandy RP diet coach app what I do
is I have these two meals here both 85
grams of
carbs so that's a total of
170 so I think that's eyeball about 130
so I'm going to edit it change this 85
to 130 Another One Bites the
Dust
had my meal worked for a little bit and
then it's Jiu-Jitsu time 3 days a week
we do Jiu-Jitsu right now that I'm in a
sort of mock prep situation Crystal's in
her own little fat loss phase we are uh
currently just doing Mo uh mostly
technique a little bit of flow rolling
but really just drilling we have a
sequence of drilling that we do uh three
times a week sometimes we go live closer
towards the end of when we're getting
died to down and tired we don't go live
anymore cuz that's how you get hurt so
we're still working on that Jiu-Jitsu
shit I'm a brown belt Crystal here's a
white belt but full of that fucking rage
and that's what really matters you guys
ready to see some rage let's get to
[Music]
drilling since I did more carbs than the
last meal this meal is only 40 G 60 G of
fat 15 protein sorry good God 60 grams
of protein 15 fat and that's what this
meal I had
uh thrown in earlier has and you know
two to five grams of carbs from the
veggies so I'm going to throw this in
I'm going to throw some rice in uh get
that to microwave first and get the rice
and then Chow Down on the second to last
meal of the
[Music]
day a lot of the place I spend many of
my days is my office this is my favorite
room in the house I'll headphone in I
crank away and do my stuff super
comfortable best work station I've ever
had this is how I help design the apps
this is where I make all the Powerpoints
and outlines for the videos this is
where I teach class from this is where I
do podcasts from you see those podcast
lights there Mr Scott the video guy got
them for me notice there's nothing on
the wall because when I'm here this
amazing Samsung curve monitor is all I
want to see good work effort here a few
hours let's go eat again all right last
meal of the day it is now about 9:30
p.m. where we have the scheduled 40
Grand of protein roughly 5 grams of fat
and 15 gam of carbs that's what this
comes out to two of these oy Co Pros
strawberries of fine flavor my
favorite's peach they didn't have enough
at the store and uh three grams of fat
each eight grams of carbs each and 20
grams of protein very close to the
macros that I have and I love to enjoy
zero sugar tropical flavored soda my God
how do they do it I don't care I don't
care if they're bleeding the tropics dry
for it I want more and now we are we
going to watch
television and dig in to the
fun all right this is it I'm signing off
eating my last meal here a little bit of
protein uh yogurt and uh some some fun
soda I'm going to have my nighttime
pills again same pill magnesium and shit
like that no one cares and then I'm
going to go to sleep and as I fall
asleep I'm going to think of uh Happy
pretty things like unicorns rainbows
maybe rainbow unicorns sweet dreams
wherever you're sleeping tonight and
send me pck no wait wait it doesn't make
sense I'll see you guys next
[Music]
time