foreign
to the house of hypertrophy it's
commonly said muscles take 48 to 72
hours to recover from a workout of
course the duration of your recovery
will be impacted by the training
variables you use and non-training
related factors but based on how most
people tend to train is it accurate to
say muscles recover within 48 to 72
hours and therefore we should wait for
this duration until we train again
otherwise we compromise muscle and
strength gains an interesting way to
study this is to have one group of
subjects perform their workouts 48 to 72
hours apart while another group of
subjects performs their workouts 24
hours apart and then compare strength
and muscle gains between the groups two
Studies have done this let us briefly
review them and then discuss their
implications
[Music]
this 2018 stay from Singapore recruited
30 active men and assigned them to
either a 24 hour or 48-72 hour group
both groups train this training session
with these variables three times a week
for 12 weeks
the 48 to 72-hour group performed the
three sessions with 48 to 72 hours of
rest between them
the 24-hour group performed the three
sessions with 24 hours of rest between
them nutritional patterns were similar
between both groups ultimately 10 rep
max strength on a range of exercises
increased similarly between both groups
lean mass also increased comparably
between both groups so these results
fail to show it's essential to wait 48
to 72 hours until you train a muscle
again for strength and muscle
adaptations the second study is from
2016 out of Portugal 21 trained men were
recruited and assigned to either a
24-hour War 48 to 72 hour group both
groups trained this three-day per week
program for seven weeks the 48 Hours a
72-hour group performed the three
sessions with 48 to 72 hours of rest
between them
the 24-hour group performed the three
sessions with 24 hours of rest between
them fascinatingly neither group
experienced measurable fat-free mass
increases I think this is probably due
to the impreciseness of fat-free mess as
a hypertrophy measure if more precise
measures of hypertrophy were taken
hyperge 3 might have been found
nevertheless bench press and leg press
one red max strength gains were fairly
similar between both groups
interestingly the effects slightly favor
the 24-hour group but the differences
were not statistically different and it
could just be the 24-hour group head
subjects with slightly better average
genetics causing the slight average
difference
foreign
[Music]
studies fail to show it's essential to a
48 to 72 hours until you train a muscle
again performing three training sessions
a week with 24 hours of rest produced
comparable adaptations the research on
trading frequency further supports the
idea you don't always need to wait 48
hours or more to train a muscle again
quite a few studies suggest training a
muscle 5 or more days per week can be
perfectly fine for building muscle and
strength for example this 2019 study by
zoroni recruiter trained men all
subjects train the same exercises and
for the same number of total sets per
week but a bro split group trained each
muscle only once or twice per week while
a full body group trained each muscle
five times per week after 10 weeks back
squats bench press and row strength
gains were non-statistically different
between both groups but the percentages
for the squat tend to favor the full
body group fascinatingly triceps elbow
flexor and vastus Lateralus hypertrophy
tended to be superior for the full body
group for a full breakdown of the
scientific research on training
frequency feel free to check out our
video on it before moving on I'd like to
tell you about a sponsor Alpha
progression consistent training is
crucial for long-term gains an alpha
progression is a really well designed
app that can help the app enables you to
visually track your lifting long-term
progression which is great for
motivation you can input your own
program or even Explore the incredibly
flexible custom workout generator
specify your training experience what
equipment you have
your trading goals whether you want to
focus or neglect certain muscles
and how often you want to train and for
how long
the app also contains a database of over
550 exercises with great text and video
tutorials on each by using the link in
the comments and description you'll have
two weeks free of all its features plus
20 off a subscription if you do purchase
the app the house of hypertria will get
50 so This truly helps support these
three videos thank you so much
[Music]
it's logical to think that every single
time we train we want muscles to be
fully recovered from previous sessions
but I'm wondering if training muscles
under some degree of fatigue
occasionally might be perfectly fine
doing so isn't enough to kill the
stimulus and Recovery isn't exacerbated
in fact we have data showing that if you
train a muscle when it's not fully
recovered recovery isn't necessarily
exacerbated more on this in a second in
both the previously detailed studies the
24-hour group since they were training
muscles on three consecutive days were
more than likely training under some
degree of fatigue particularly in those
initial training weeks I I purposefully
use the word some degree of fatigue in
everything just mentioned training under
extreme fatigue where the muscle can
hardly contract and where you can barely
move is probably not going to be
worthwhile there is another factor that
is very important I just said those
initial training sessions for the
24-hour group were probably performed
under some degree of fatigue in the
later training sessions I actually
believe it's likely the 24-hour group
was fully recovering between their
training sessions I.E they were
recovering within 24 hours this is
because your muscles have a superpower
the repeated bout effect your body
produces a range of adaptations that
essentially Quicken your recovery
durations these adaptations are
collectively named the repeated bowel
effect in my eyes the repeated bow
effect is very underrated and
underappreciated our next video will
dissect the sign showing the power of
the repeated bow effect and what this
means for your training before moving on
to the summary keep in mind that all the
data presented in this video are
averages for some individuals it could
be possible that this information fails
to apply at the end of the day if you
experiment with training a muscle
quicker than 48 hours apart it should
eventually be apparent if you
consistently struggle to recover and
your muscle and strength gains are
lackluster
some individuals may be wondering about
the recovery of connective tissues such
as tendons and ligaments tendon injuries
can arise due to the gradual
accumulation of micro damage and tends
to be due to a mismatch between damage
and repair unfortunately it's not clear
how much resistance training may damage
connective tissues like tendons how long
the repair time may be and how different
training variables may impact this so
it's not super clear if training muscles
24 hours apart increases your likelihood
of accumulating fatigue damage of
connective tissue even so remember if
you're performing something like high
frequency training although recovery
time between sessions is less most
perform lower set numbers per session
meaning less connective tissue strain
per session additionally it hits likely
different tendons and ligaments
throughout your body have different
resistances to being damaged and of
course some people have more resilient
tendons and ligaments compared to others
it's possible that regardless of how you
train D loads are what's required to
dissipate fatigue damage with active
tissues again though there doesn't
appear to be cellular research providing
a more Crystal Clear Insight in any case
I do plan to dive into this literature
further and have future content around
connective tissue and resistance
training
foreign
we have data showing that compared to
waiting 48 to 72 hours to train a muscle
again waiting 24 hours doesn't kill
muscle or strength adaptations high
frequency training has also been
documented to be perfectly fine for
muscle hypertrophy and strength of
course it's perfectly fine for you to
train a muscle 48 to 72 hours or even
longer apart again remember the duration
of your recovery will certainly be
impacted by the training variables you
use and non-training related factors
nevertheless the aim of this video was
to show the scientific literature
indicates it's certainly possible for
you to construct a successful trading
program where you train muscles 24 hours
apart so under the right conditions why
are we able to train a muscle 24 hours
apart your body can produce adaptations
that speed up your recovery our next
video will detail the very interesting
science of this also training under some
degree of fatigue occasionally may be
perfectly fine the training stimulus is
not completely killed and we have data
showing that if you train a muscle when
it's not fully recovered recovery isn't
exacerbated I've actually started a
patreon page where I have an extra short
video that details this incredibly
interesting research plus we cover an
interesting study that shows us what
could happen to muscle and strength
Gates if you're consistently training a
muscle under extreme levels of fatigue
so if you'd like to check out that extra
content and help support the house of
hypertrophy I would be thankful if you
consider checking the patreon page out
thank you until next time
[Music]