[Music]
the eggs are actually delicious
so far the food has been so good here so
so this is something Stephanie just
ordered it's called shakshuka kind of
like scrambled eggs see there's like a
really good flavor on it that I can't
pinpoint cuz I'm not a foodie but very
delicious I'm going to make some oatmeal
sprinkle some sugar raisins in a little
bit good in my last video someone
commented they were like I was starting
to wonder if Jeff's videos were scripted
then I heard a woman get a perfectly
concise and clear answer to what you
want to eat and now I know that they're
screwed oh hey mrs. O'Neil's how does it
get so good the other thing I had
Snickers on the side but that's what it
looks like oh it's not sick Stephanie
just finished editing her latest video
if you're not subscribed to her this is
her channel it's lit we just ordered
room service
and I think I just heard them at the
door he spent basically somebody through
the whole morning sleeping I've got 11
a.m. so we had breakfast and then to do
that in her video I was doing some
client work I had some Skype calls to do
now we're getting lunch and it's like
4:30 p.m. and this room service it is
not in there it was a ghost who's an
Egyptian mummy look at this guy cruise
it on the Nile that's the life right
there this guy has a seadoo Oh see do
Nile Egypt this is not loading yeah the
Wi-Fi here is not fantastic maybe we
should upgrade to the business Wi-Fi
hello yes that's very great let me tip
on the on that paper does any other go
to youtube or is it just to whoever made
a food yummy the food I really fit you
yeah wise of you as well as on there too
we looked it there but we want you to
have something to do you get any of that
tips do you get the money from it you're
good to go - yes - yes okay that's what
I was only one yeah thank you very
nourishing iron just hair
another article about me thank you
generation iron for the for the share
natural bodybuilder Jeff Tedford shows
off IFBB level physique wonderful and
yeah it's very cool - oh they shared
this photo of my side tricep - something
I never noticed before Facebook will
update the notification icon to be the
side of the earth that you're on so
normally this icon would be like North
America but now it shows Africa and
Europe
[Music]
my experience in Egypt so far has been
like I don't know how I couldn't give it
a tenth just I can't imagine it having
been any better individual meals
probably AK imagine means better but as
a whole you just don't get that case
this is good food just here the Egyptian
restaurants and hotel getting a coffee
something different for you I know
there's two flounders here by the way
okay yes thank you so much
[Music]
we were we were hoping to book a tour
like for the pyramid in a medium
there's film class to go to our hotel
I'm doing a split is that Egyptian
Museum okay I want to go there Yahoo so
just the wind we came here for the
wedding that we decided to stay longer
than just for the wedding all right
thank you so much thank you we just
booked a tour of the Egyptian Museum in
Old Cairo City tomorrow so we're going
to pack a day in and then the wedding is
in the evening we're getting upright and
early tomorrow expecting today as we
won't need to do that again yeah awesome
tomorrow morning everyone be is Friday
May 12th we are going to check out the
museum and then we're going to Old Cairo
so first things we have to get some cash
taken out that you can we're going to
might be a little bit of shopping in old
Paris in my wallet right now I have a
thousand Egyptian pounds over time so
much money and it's 55 it's like 55
bucks Americans yeah so we need to take
out maybe another thousand or two so one
u.s. dollar in a teenager
plans to visit Egypt at any time make
sure you come here with American money
spirit in order to get into the country
yeah that was a little bit to get your
visa is it as easy to get into Egypt
they require that you have US dollars
apparently may be headed like go to an
ATM and they get Egyptian pounds they go
to a bank but you wouldn't frickin
transfer it for us and we had like
little phony little Iran it's a very
angry machine something is aggressive
but it gave us two hundred four hundred
five hundred six seven eight hundred
Virgin Islands right you should show
themselves yeah Nidalee TUBITAK Middle
East really oil well wanting in this
desert playing golf
don't chase shorts back he was a movie
star not to mention last night I did
actually pull a complete all-nighter so
it's the first time I've done that ever
I didn't want to be so behind on my
Egypt blogs while here and you kind of
started editing it at like 1:00 a.m. and
I finished it around 8:00 a.m. I
uploaded it at like 8:00 a.m. here if I
am a little bit out of it today
because I'm literally running on zero
sleep on the jet lag might have
something to do with it there is a six
hour time difference here so bear with
me today hi
let's get these next be 90 I'm Jeff nice
to meet you yeah and I are on our way
I have 2000 Egyptian pounds and I think
that's good it's like enough yes okay so
this our first time at school we went on
the pool you're kind of a cut thank you
so much we're ghosts uh Felicia Museum
yes what was in the highlight of the
museum then we'll have a meetin bond and
you can play anything
Guga okay oh thank you so much thank you
are you staying here okay all right
you spin on them don't do I don't think
a museum one of the limited museum all
over the world hmm we go through the
camera inside we can write you can be if
you'll be using insider to be perfect or
fifty pounds
yes this
it's a really good thing we got the
target Oh
imagine trying to do this like we
wouldn't happen
it is officially YouTube friendly for us
and what else I can't thank you without
eating 10 minute here and this is
redundant
hello block was positive just full
crushing load in English because rivet
in 1799 one with the French folder
felony hit and equal it burgesses okay
okay I want to see if I I have it right
oh okay now he spent 22 years in cyber
crime the hieroglyphics they converted
into Greek and what was the other Lee he
wanted democracy okay he converted me
this Tyra's of expense budget like 30
times 25 times when you assorted do you
think you took in 22 years and traveling
all around he likes to do that Justin
fully ill inside right right and he
found seven okay he got mobile spokes to
as the Rosetta Stone used to translate
the hieroglyphs around engage in 50
degrees and commodity okay this looks
something goes the first ticket
socialization is mostly with the horse
you know they way the heart again use
the physical yoke just for my video I
like
this is the embalming table plumbing 50
favorite zombify the body and then they
would wrap all the fingers and cold was
and everything all individually and they
would take a different cloth and they
wrap all of that whole the building all
the whole body up and then they would
put them over into this holding company
logo is often and they would put four
jars in with them and they would take a
 coffin and to bring it over here
put it a surrogate nor garden for a
larger lab is abundant in scientist of
all right it closed at our table we put
it in a tune or pyramid humidity chamber
and very - very chamber and then that
for the team or someone who is richer
than you and I would would die and they
would take out all of our organs before
the summit has been delivered and it
would leave the heart and we would take
the brain out of them and then they're
going to wave the brain in the heart and
see which weighs more cement weighs more
the heart swim walk yes okay we're
homing day was 40 days 40 days oh yeah
feature that in peace peaceful
I'm usually bachelor they don't heat us
about the 40 days or something of note
this bikinis garnishes guy said was very
knowledgeable in anatomy so it allowed
him to build at the deep that he said
was very impressive he has muscular
chest and muscular arms said something
like mine
is there reason why some can I have one
my favorite live link is easy
whoo-hoo portable fuel bottle with a
rickety anything a music thing
I feel better today my right I guess it
depends on if you're right or left with
a little business is there anything that
it lines up with the heart so maybe you
have a heavier heart and she has a
heavier brain yeah I can see someone
drink their milk mr. King Khufu and have
we gotten to Alexandria because you said
that there was a king who was like a
very powerful leader in Egypt I was I
was thinking Alexandria petrol and have
we come to her in the story effort he
was she was litigation she wasn't
independent the great she looked nice so
charming and and you look beautiful look
there's a lot later Bailey it's so cool
oh hey yes like all there's linglong
successfully because the only thing in
here is that was a coffee with rosetta
stone yeah but everything else you hear
you it's weird to think that like you go
see an exhibit like an Egyptian exhibit
in the state this one thing but we're in
yet is the real sense we just finished
up at the Egyptian Museum that was a lot
of crash course history already now
we're headed to Old Cairo we'll check
with you guys a little
[Music]
so we're here at the old museum Cairo to
have avarice need you
they used to make deputies the vertical
and wouldn't allow the green cover
actually is very very strong connection
basket condoms chair tables both so we
can toast more stuff like this right so
to make the waiver as you see we arrange
all these strips similar resulted in
further ado now the pressure for holding
that together mmm
as you can see the resultant vertical
strip same scales out the will stick
together socially friendly third it is
water it will actually a question from
the practical value it just from the
Pratt in the jar just of a just water
below and expect sex before they get how
much sugar something because actually
this task of personal silicone gel yeah
and like that SAP I think yes like a
little break before and yet
you wonder
hungry chicken rice vegetables unions
and hafta have you ever seen someone use
the camera as much as a number it's like
if you're ever in Egypt I recommend
sowing that'd be for a tour
he's very smart thank you so much good
on screen archaeology and in health as
two years of PhD six years of schooling
bad ideas for guide so extremely
qualified extremely knowledgeable person
if you are ever visiting Egypt emissions
and district someone you just had to
make pursue you're gonna do is cure
yourself perfume I'm gonna have to al
coming up soon Bursley Stephanie steady
Oh Jess that's all wonderful number one
okay I don't want to power better you
know good feel like for this out the
stopper thing and he'll wipe that on my
finger and then I'll smell it these are
just like pure extracts from the flowers
and you do it the right way it's okay we
don't we don't want that much we will
get one of these it's not just wanted to
pray what I do to 465 us well other ones
are going to touch 345 we're looking we
didn't plan to spend $80 on the bottom
of your perfume 2% Wow then after a
synagogue
so Joseph Mary and Jesus we're trying to
make the trek back to Jerusalem out of
Egypt they kind of hid in here for three
months and ten days is it okay in here
okay this would have been when Jesus was
a little child it's like a report of
diesel utility boom the bottle is opaque
not an enemy
we can walk up through here oh yeah
we'll help this one you hot dog not sure
exactly what walking through look sound
there the cavern where the so this is
visit the cavern where the Holy Family
stayed for three months in 10 days right
go ahead I'm not that tough
to protect my heavy bring yo one through
key so these are the original rocks that
Jesus Christ and his family walked on
when they were hiding here the well from
which the Holy Family drink from oh wait
so that means the well which the Holy
Family drink from oh thank you so much
thank you
that was cool I really like that that
was my favorite part of today so if
you're keeping track so far we've been
to a Jewish synagogue a Christian Church
and now this is the Islamic mosque you
have to take off your shoes
my little buddy Kentucky okay
[Music]
are you cool with this okay
yes
check this out
it's so beautiful then
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you I'm here to go are you feeling
oh just look at all oh yeah Oh quick
update on the whole wedding situation so
it's no go I knew it was going to be a
no-go for me even before we left for
Egypt right it will be a no vote for me
as well yeah we were notified that it's
a government-run venue and so basically
the government run they don't allow
anyone into the actual wedding ceremony
who isn't Egyptian or doesn't have like
an Egyptian government issued ID her own
brother there's not been a lot of it so
they're extremely strict so I didn't
even get into the car Stephanie at least
tried and it was a no-go they denied her
entry into the wedding's attend the coat
ceremony part but I don't think I want
to stay very long I just want to get a
few photos with her I just don't want to
cause any trouble that would add extra
stress onto her though but we are
waiting in the car waiting for the
ceremony feels a little bit
disappointing but it was something that
we were prepared for so yeah we're just
going to chill here I'm going to chill
here and get back to some YouTube
comments I do read all comments but I
also coach full-time and that takes up
just as much time generally as my
youtubing does comments are a great way
for me and I read through all of them I
appreciate in some
I just want to let you know I've been a
little bit ghosting on those because
I've just been putting as much effort as
I can into producing the content which
is what people seem to want the most
from oh this is another thing that I
don't think I mentioned here yet
I hit 200,000 subscribers on the channel
yesterday so you thank you guys enough
for the continued support I feel like I
just hit 100,000 subscribers like months
ago or something as though the channel
is going superfast
and that was a huge milestone for me
this one feels less punctuated for some
reasons I feel like the plot for the
part yeah it's not like a huge thing
it's like I don't cross a figure mark
it's like it's still six figures and the
next big one is going to be while we're
waiting
so yeah I figured while we're waiting
for the wedding to end I just read a few
comments from my last video please do an
artificial sweetners science playing
video just a good topic I need to do it
the argument that people are making is
that it affects your microbiome that is
it I mean that is a good one that is if
it affects anything I actually did a
podcast with Kamal Patel
yeah they talked about how we get in my
description there's a split consensus on
this people are either fully in favor of
it it's okay it doesn't affect anything
or it's going to kill you in any way I
caught them are more in the middle but
probably a little bit closer to the it's
probably safety to haven't consumed a
whole lot of it for it to run into
serious issues row since you're so
scientific and stuff and stuff can you
do a video but the potential health
effects of pre-workouts and energy
drinks
you can't just lump everything in
together it's like pre-workouts and
energy drinks like there's just so much
going on there to say that this is bad
you have to kind of look at individual
things in those items
to consider the health effects of those
that's what science tries to do I don't
claim to have the answers to those
questions because it's very difficult to
tease out health effects because you
either need to run it longitudinally
where you follow someone overtime where
they take this over a long time that
research is really hard to do or you can
do it
epidemiologically where you look at a
group of people who may take in more of
it and then try to drive trends but it's
really difficult to come to scientific
consensus that way when it comes to
health it's really tough to tease the
literature part which is why it's so
polarized Jeff the type of guy to set my
monitor on fire from the truck Travis
cough which I agree uh rila says so it's
like four times that is so good I was
just Wilding out too much I couldn't
hold my chemistry I got you to do it
what kind of gym doesn't allow grunting
grunting has actually been
scientifically shown to increase power
output in like tennis players obviously
but I had karate and karate yes when
they did a chop grunting is is smart so
Omar ESA's gave me a shout-out on his
channel so that's cool I didn't know
that I hadn't seen that video yet so
thanks to the heads up I'll make sure I
go watch it we've been speaking about
doing a collab for months probably about
six months we've been talking about
doing a collab so I'm going to Toronto
for the fit Expo maybe I'll send him a
text and CSU wants to do something hit
up vlogs more often Jeff I actually like
to look back on it because it's fun
because you forget the fun stuff that
you did but I prefer to make the science
explain videos those I get more
passionate about I love editing those
I'm always going to stay true to my
roots for that and then if I'm traveling
or if I'm doing something exciting that
our blog Travis Scott show looks lit I'm
seeing him him on the Kendra tour in
Philly I'm gonna try to go to see that
show in Houston if I'm in the States
when they're playing or in Vancouver
when I'm in Canada but either way I'll
be going to that Kendrick thousand
traffic got or it's going to be amazing
people are linking to 8:30 thermal
offices
it's making the bottle like a shake
weight then I don't know I think he
might be a gesticulate of sexually
stipulation sexual just information you
guys you guys can't see me but my face
is just like right now like that zooming
that's what it's referring to why would
you link to where we're shaking a couple
oh yeah oh yeah I was supposed to read 7
I'm telling you a different time after
we start your they said you're only
allowed to come into a 5 10 minutes that
time sorry I know it's like your fault
okay I'm gonna compete when bought here
because like I said earlier I didn't
sleep last night 8:00 8:15 p.m.
here now and so until I'm pretty tired
I'm gonna sleep really well tonight I
don't forget to hit the like button if
you liked it if you're new to the
channel please subscribe you guys