hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I have a question for you
should you bulk no wait wait should you
maintain Bo should you cut that sounds
fun how do you know when to do the
various diet phases to couple them with
your training for best longterm muscle
gain and fat loss results will wait no
more the answers are coming now here we
go before we tell you if and when and
how you should be bulking or maintaining
your
let's take a look at all three of the
phases and explore a little bit of kind
of what you're getting in each phase
like if you're telling someone who's
never been to a restaurant before hey do
you want burritos or pizza or Chinese
food they're going to be like what are
all those things and you'll have to
explain them so that they can make the
right choice same idea with these phases
first the muscle gain phase the goal is
to put on muscle which automatically
means that if you don't want to put on
muscle that's probably not the phase for
you at this time in your life life the
costs are that in almost every case a
muscle gain phase will cost some
temporary marginal addition of body fat
and will result in a higher level of
training fatigue because going hard in
the gym absolutely beats you up and a
muscle gain phase is best done when
you're going hard in the
gym the requirements before you
start is that you have a good body image
and loow training fatigue let's take
those one at a time good body image is
because when you are going to be doing a
muscle gain phase some added body fat is
going to be in the equation for at least
a few weeks after the phase until you
can diet it off if your body image isn't
amazing or the best it's been in a while
and you're like hey let me do this phase
where I get fatter that might not hit
exactly as well as you had planned but
if you have really good body image
you're like fuck it I can gain a little
bit of weight I don't give a fuck then
you're at least in that respect ready to
do another muscle gain phase and low
training fatigue means your joints feel
good your the rest of your body feels
good you're excited to train your
muscles can get a good pump really
easily you're not in this position where
you're like man I want to gain muscle
but like I don't feel like training that
hard I'm beat up and tired you don't
want to start a muscle game things like
that so those are prerequisite
conditions in most cases for even
thinking of starting a muscle gain phase
and the recommended duration of a muscle
gain phase is for most better outcomes
is somewhere between 12 and 20 weeks in
length which means if you do not have 12
to 20 weeks in length to dedicate to a
muscle gain phase you can still do one
but maybe it wouldn't be your best
choice next the maintenance phase the
goal in the maintenance phase is to
recover from diet fatigue and recover
from training fatigue now maintenance
phase here we mean a dedicated phase
that maintains your body weight but
checklists a couple of actual goals if
you're just training and you're not
dieting to gain or lose and you're just
enjoying life that is actually called
the balance phase it's not really a
phase it's just the balance lifestyle So
that's its own thing we won't talk about
you're might be in that phase most
people are by default in a state of
balance so a maintenance phase the goal
is to recover diet fatigue that you
accumulated in another phase or recover
from training fatigue that you
accumulate in another phase so that you
can get ready to do another more
productive phase such as cutting or
bulking fat loss or muscle gain those
are the meat and potatoes phases that
actually drive change the maintenance
phases is like a cool off phase it's
like if you're a really crazy dedicated
career person that's what the weekend is
you don't do the weekend because it's
some kind of want to go to a county fair
or go to the park you hate that shit you
want to be at your job making crazy
productive things for the rest of us but
you know that weekends are important to
let you cool off relax so you can be
ready on Monday to hit work hard again
same idea for maintenance phases that's
what they are to muscle gain and fat
loss phases the cost of a maintenance
phase is that you don't really see very
impressive changes in your body body one
week goes by two weeks three weeks four
weeks five weeks in a maintenance phase
and you kind of just look the same and
that's a cost because some of us really
get addicted in a good way many times to
like make shit looking different week to
week in the mirror I'm either Fuller
rounder when I'm a muscle gain phase or
leaner and sharper and more cut on a fat
loss phase on a maintenance phase you
just can't expect to see really cool
results because the fatigue and all that
stuff that's decreasing is all under the
hood it's not super visible the
requirement before starting not a
requirement but kind of the reason you
would do a phase and then Essence a
requirement it's like if um you want to
get your oil changed in your car the
requirement is that some amount of time
has passed before your last one now you
can always just come in the next week
after an oil change you're like hey Bob
mechanic here to get my oil changed
again he's going to be like is this one
of those serial kill movies where you
fucking come in too often and then time
number three you stabed me in the eye
why the fuck are you here your oil is
totally fine you can always come in
early but why you know what what was
Scott the video guy you know cars how
often do oil changes
happen every 3 to 5,000 miles BMW to oh
the BMWs can go longer I'm just got the
video guy I'm richy fucking rich and a
Trader to our Great American Nation hash
Byam I'm kidding everybody in any case
sure you can do a maintenance phase for
a few unconvincing reasons but if you
don't have high training fatigue or high
diet fatigue you can probably just do a
muscle gain phase or a fat loss phase so
maintenance phase because it is to
reduce fatigue is its primary purpose
then having some kind of day diet
fatigue or some training fatigue is
probably a requirement to make the most
sense out of doing the phase and the
recommended duration for a maintenance
phase is at the smallest time scale
usually two weeks you can drop a lot of
training fatigue in two weeks but if you
have a crazy amount of diet fatigue
especially after a psychotically insane
fat loss phase they got you really
really lean you can maintain for up to
12 weeks and still see benefits in
precipitously declining diet fatigue
that entire time so 2 to 12 weeks is the
duration there's of course a lot of
individualization within that lastly but
not
leastly the fat loss phase the goal of a
fat loss phase is twofold it is to lose
fat for sure but also to retain muscle
you don't want to lose fat and muscle at
least not a lot of muscle because then
people at work think you're sick
and say like shit like hey my
condolences you're like what the fuck my
condolences to my body fat they're like
no to your muscle gains bro you're like
fuck they got me so you want to maintain
as much muscle as possible while losing
fat those are the goals of the fat loss
phase the costs of the fat loss phase is
that your diet fatigue will go up you're
going to get cranky tired hungry
Sleepless all that crap and your
training fatigue will for sure go up
you're going to be a little bit of a
broken off Mr Potato Head one arm
hanging off after a really good Diet
phase uh it's just pay the cost to to be
the boss kind of stuff in order to start
a fat loss phase generally the
requirements or best position you should
be in is that you have low diet fatigue
this is huge if you start your next fat
loss phase and you are already trying to
chew your fingers off the bone because
you're starving where you think that's
going after three weeks you're going to
fall off the wagon and as you fall off
the wagon you're going to fall into a
container of Taco Bell tacos hard
shell and you're going to eat all of
them 800 tacos later you'll have to get
your stomach pumped it's a terrible
thing you should in almost every case
only start a fat loss diet if you can
truly tell yourself I am at peace with
my diet I don't want a ton of cheap food
snacks are fun but I can do without them
for a while and I'm totally okay to plug
in and for the next six 8 12 or whatever
weeks it is I can stick to a rigid diet
and be okay so low diet fatigue is a
huge check mark to be able to put in
your little diet passport I don't know
so that you can do best with that next
phase and if you can't check it you need
to maintain for longer or do a muscle
gain phase or do something else you
should also have low training fatigue
training is Pretty Tough during a fat
loss phase but here's the big kicker
once you have a certain level of high
fatigue those low calories don't let you
drop it very much so even if your
fatigue during a fat loss phase in the
middle is a little high it's just going
to get higher and higher because how the
fuck are you going to heal from that
when you can't eat enough food to even
maintain your body weight so low
training fatigue prepares you it gives
you that good clear Runway of hard
training so that your airplane of diet
fing fuck that an alergy and fuck that
up lastly in the best case scenario to
set yourself up for the best success
probability you you want a
clear
timetable of largely uninterrupted
ability to eat the food you need to eat
and train as hard as you need to train
without a ton of weddings and travel and
work events and all this other crazy
stuff that gets in the way of your life
that prevents you from being on point
with your plan the best fat loss phases
are ones in which you live kind of like
Vegeta and Trunks did in the hyperbolic
Time Chamber you're in there there's
nowhere else to go there's only food
sleep and training now that's not our
usual lifestyle but the closest you can
get to that the better you sure shit
don't want like oh yeah I've got a trip
to Mexico it's two and a half weeks long
in the middle of my fat loss pH I'll
just diet through that if you ever been
in Mexico that food is so good holy shit
you're never going to die through that
you have to be a
realistic and how long of a phase you
need well anywhere from 8 to 12 weeks is
a typical duration there are mini cuts
and other Advanced things we can talk
about but generally good solid fat F
loss phase is 8 to 12 weeks in length
eight weeks to do some really good fat
loss anything shorter doesn't really
lose a ton of fat anything over 12 weeks
is more like competitive bodybuilder
type stuff a lot of people get such high
diet fatigue by the end of the 12 weeks
that anything more is just risking
falling off the wagon for no net gains
taking all of that together the two
questions that can answer the main
question of what phase should you do now
is first which phases goal appeals the
most to you right now do you want to put
on muscle right now do you want to lose
fat right now don't fucking say both yes
of course it's both of course we all
want to get infinitely jacked and
negative body fat percent but which one
right now is the one you want to tackle
secondly do you meet all of the
conditions of the phase which you want
to
tackle and if you don't meet the
conditions of that phase which phase can
you do that will allow you to meet the
conditions of that phase you wanted to
do originally beforehand it's like
you're driving to a friend's birthday
party and you're like what am I missing
fuck a birthday present what's going to
help me solve that I'm gonna go to well
let's see what is our friend I'm gonna
go to Home Depot and get him a shovel
because he always talks about how he
hates his wife and he's gonna kill that
quote stupid bitch someday and how is he
going to bury her he's going to need a
shovel so I'm going to get him a shovel
and the Home Depot trip will
potentiate my trip to the birthday party
and I show up to the birthday party this
is for your wife and he's like thanks
man I love you I hate that bitch and
you're like okay I hope we're all joking
by the way this whole time Mr friend
because your wife's quite lovely but if
she was to disappear I mean I don't know
where she went in any case which phase's
goal appeals to you right now and do you
meet all the conditions for the phase
let's do a few examples one for each
phase so for
example what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now you've been lifting hard for a year
straight you have no diet or training
fatigue to speak of you are fresh as a
pickle and you figure you really want to
get like fucking lean lean for the first
time ever all you do is go to the fat
loss phase and you look again at all the
requirements and all of the
different categories and you see if it
lines up gold loose fat sounds like what
I want retain muscle great costs diet
fatigue no wor no worries I'm willing to
pay that training fatigue no worries I'm
willing to pay that requirements before
starting low diet fatigue check low
training fatigue check largely
uninterrupted time to grind without
major distractions o okay yep I do have
a wedding in October but I'll call them
and tell them to move it for me into
December excellent and I have 8 to 12
weeks Amazing then it's a fat loss phase
is the
answer number two you've been dieting
for a while now and you really just want
to get huge it's muscle gain time but
you're really fatigued in training as
well your joints are kind of eh your
muscles are kind of H so we looks like
we can't do any more fat loss we don't
even want to do that we'd ideally like
to do a muscle gain phase but we need to
reduce our training
fatigue which phase reduces training
fatigue it's a no-brainer it's the
maintenance phase and if you go to the
maintenance phase you check all the
goals costs requirements recommended
durations and you're like check Chuck
check I can do all that then the
maintenance phase is the
answer lastly number three you say
you're stoked to get bigger and you're
one 100% comfortable with a bit of extra
fat gain for a few months no diet
fatigue to speak of no training fatigue
to speak of well shit you are absolutely
queued up to do a muscle gain phase and
that last thing of how comfortable are
you with a bit of fat gain that's a
thing that for a lot of guys is super
easy super tractable but for a lot of
ladies it requires some thinking some
inner peace and ladies remember if you
gain like half a pound per week after 10
weeks of muscle gain dieting and getting
bigger muscles you're only up worst case
if you gain zero muscle at all which
won't happen 5 lounds of fat the thing
is 5 pounds of fat if you weigh 130 and
all of a sudden uh 10 weeks later you
weigh 135 it's highly unlikely that
people at the gym or people at work like
damn Debbie did you fucking eat Debbie
the cupcake lady ho holy shit it's such
a tiny amount 5 PBS is like period blo
that's that's that is it awesome no dear
br feel Tighter and you feel kind of
icky sure you want to wear more
turtlenecks and sweaters fine but you
can get through it and at the end just a
couple weeks after you can do a little
mini fat loss phase get all of the
weight off all of the fat off and be
left with Rippling huge enormous strided
concrete dense rebar muscle you can
finally come up to that fucking hot ass
Antonio Banderas look like motherfucker
at work and be like hey Hector and he's
like see and you're like watch this
motherfucker and he's like I you this
meal let's go right now to Albano where
I will love your body up and down over
and
over ideally you say yes at that point
ah sure your boss walks in you're like
get out of here Frank I'm trying to fuck
in any case ladies enjoy gentlemen
hopefully you're Hector I'll see you
next
time