[Music]
okay what's going on everyone else when
this video I'm going to be responding to
bro Jeff's latest video over here where
he goes for trip to the grocery store
and then lays out his top three
principles or rules for bodybuilding
nutrition now before we get into that I
want to give a huge shout out to
Squarespace for sponsoring this video in
case any of you guys aren't aware
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I used to run Jeff Knipper
comp where I sell all my training
programs and I've been using them for
about four years now and I think their
service is amazing the website templates
that they use are really aesthetic and
simple to set up and they also have
amazing 24-hour customer support that
I'll use anytime I run into any issues
also over the last few months I've been
using the Squarespace Analytics app to
track my web traffic what pages are
getting more views and which programs
are selling better than others so if you
guys are looking to get started with
your own website or creating your own
online store and I strongly recommend
using Squarespace and if you go to
Squarespace comm you can get started
with a free trial and when you're ready
to launch go to Squarespace com forward
slash Nippert and that's gonna save you
10% off your first purchase
alright so basically I'm gonna go
through the bro Jeff grocery haul one
principle at a time I'll have the tamp
I'll have the timestamps linked down
below if you guys would like to hop
around according to topic first things
first I will say that the response to
these videos has been super interesting
to me as a creator because it seems like
these parody videos will get almost
double the engagement and interaction as
I get on an actual informative video I'm
not exactly sure what to make of that
it's something I could do maybe every
couple months maybe like the first of
every other month do a parody video like
this or is it something you think I
should reserve for maybe doing like once
a year say on April Fool's just let me
know I'm not sure how much to use this
character on my channel how without
potentially getting some backlash but
it's been entertaining for me to say the
least
now anyway I want to jump right in and
go through all three of these rules one
at a time figure out if he got anything
right and what that might be and kind of
dismantle anything he got wrong so let's
have a look at his first rule here
pillar number one which is that the more
protein you can
eat better there is actually no limit to
the amount of protein that you can
absorb in a single meal and you can
actually use all the protein that you
eat for muscle building purposes
um so the first rule basically the more
protein you eat the better pretty
strongly disagree with that what I would
say is that most people in the general
public do actually under eat on protein
and could benefit from a higher protein
intake and has probably at least in part
due to the fact that I think the RDA our
recommended daily allowance for protein
is set way too low at least for people
who are weight training it's currently
at 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight
so that's about 0.4 grams per pound
which is extremely low so just for
example say a hundred and twenty pound
woman would be eating just about 50
grams of protein a day which I don't
think is enough to maximize the anabolic
response to trained in in any way I'm a
guy 200 pounds would still be eating
less than 100 grams of protein a day so
I think that as a general rule
increasing your protein intake is a good
idea but that doesn't mean that more
protein is necessarily better and in the
literature that we have there seems to
come a point where you don't see any
extra benefit from increasing protein
further according to the most recent
evidence on this that point seems to be
around 1.6 - grams per kilogram of body
weight and so that would be just around
0.7 grams per pound now for my personal
coaching experience this actually does
seem to be a bit low so for me that
would be somewhere around 120 grams of
protein per day
I don't feel perfectly comfortable
recommending an intake quite that low
just because there doesn't seem to be
any downside to going slightly higher
and giving yourself a little bit more of
a anabolic buffer so to speak so for me
I prefer to go off the results of an
earlier 2011 paper which basically
argued for a slightly higher intake up
to two grams per kilogram I'm suggests
about one gram of protein per pound
which is the figure that I usually go
with it's really easy to remember and
it's really simple to do the calculation
is 165 pound person I do
65 grams of protein per day with that
said bro Jeff over here is recommending
450 grams of protein per day is just
insanely high far outside any of the
recommendations you'd see in the
literature for him I'd recommend
something more like 165 to 200 grams of
protein per day and even though the
literature I think you know as a
high-end you can go with 1 gram per
pound
I am also sympathetic to increasing it
even higher than that when it comes to
body recomposition which is an area I
feel like the literature hasn't really
honed in on yet so going slightly higher
than 1 gram per pound I think is fine
but I'd never recommend anything as
absurdly high as 450 grams really for
anyone now the other thing bro Jeff said
in there was that there's no limit to
the amount of protein you can absorb and
use for muscle building purposes the
first part of that statement I think is
true we can pretty much absorb however
much protein we eat so if we were to eat
say 500 grams of protein in one sitting
you would absorb pretty much all of that
because absorption just means are the
amino acids passing through the
intestine and getting into the
bloodstream and the limit for that is
ridiculously high but I think the
relevant and interesting question is how
much of that protein are you gonna
actually use for muscle building
purposes and actually answered this
question in detail in another video that
I'll have linked in the description box
below if you'd like to check it out but
in short depending on what literature
you're looking at there seems to be a
cap in terms of the anabolic response to
a single meal somewhere between 20 to 40
grams of protein so if you're just gonna
slam the body with I don't know 100 or
200 grams of protein all at once that
might not do anything extra for an ab
ilysm past that 20 to 40 gram mark
there's actually a little bit more
nuance to it than that so I'd recommend
checking out the full video if you're
interested in more on that now there's
another thing in here that he said that
bothered me a little bit so I'm gonna
play that real quick
and you want to basically think of your
body like an on and off switch so you're
either a fully anabolic or fully
catabolic you want to stay in that
anabolic state as long as possible
including during your training so if you
have a tupperware you put some ground
turkey in the Tupperware
be nice an anabolic striker training
session so yeah the idea of thinking
about your body like an on/off switch is
probably the worst way you can
conceptualize it I've heard researchers
say it's much more informative and
accurate to think of the anabolic
response to eating protein as a turn
dial so if you eat a little bit of
protein you can crank the anabolic
response up a little bit if you eat a
little more you crank it up a little bit
more and then there'll come a point
where the dial just won't crank any
further and you don't get more of a
response so that's just a more accurate
way to think about it you're not either
fully catabolic or fully anabolic
usually it's kind of a gray area and a
blend of those processes okay so a
second rule was basically you can eat as
many carbs as you want and you won't get
fat as long as the carbs are clean now I
would think that most of my viewers at
this point would know that that's pretty
flagrant bro science it doesn't really
matter where your carbs are coming from
if you're eating in a caloric surplus
you will gain fat I think the more
interesting claim that he made was that
you should spike insulin post-workout to
maximize the anabolic response to
training and this is an old bodybuilding
myth that still seems to be kicking
around and it's not total bro science
there is actually some theoretical basis
for it I think one side of the theory
goes that well insulin is basically the
storage hormone and so if you spike
insulin in conjunction with eating
protein after training then it's going
to sort of force that protein to be
stored into the muscle more it kind of
makes sense on the surface but it's
actually not that simple in reality and
in fact we have a lot of research now
showing us that you don't get an
increased anabolic response to protein
when you add carbohydrate so just eating
protein on its own without carbs seems
to be sufficient to max out the Hannah
ball response you don't get anything
extra from adding carbs now it does seem
that insulin has an anti proteolytic
effect so basically after training
spiking insulin might prevent further
muscle protein breakdown however the
concentration of insulin that you need
in the blood to see this effect is
actually pretty low so you could
actually get to that level that
of insulin concentration just by eating
a simple pre-workout mixed meal with
carbohydrate in it that's going to have
sort of a sustained insulin response
that will extend into the post-workout
period and also the insulin response
from just eating protein on its own is
enough to reach that threshold for the
anti proteolytic effect so you don't
really need to add insulin really or you
don't need to add carbs for really any
reason post-workout just protein on its
own would be fine or if you ate carbs
pre-workout within a reasonable time
frame insulin should still be high
enough post-workout that there's nothing
urgent about slamming carbs right after
training now the other thing he said
here was that you need to eat a lot of
carbs after training to replenish your
glycogen which you'll deplete from
training glycogen of course is stored
carbon carbohydrate in the muscle and in
your liver which you use for energy
during training the thing is is that the
type of training we typically do as
bodybuilders is actually not all that
glycogen depleting to begin with and
even if it was even let's just say if
you did a very high volume grueling
training session and let's say you're in
a caloric deficit so you're already a
little bit glycogen depleted there's
really no urgency to get that glycogen
restored as quickly as possible whether
you slam that carbohydrate very quickly
and get the glycogen restored right away
or just kind of eat a normal diet with
carbohydrate containing meals at a 24
hour time frame post training you're
going to have the same amount of
glycogen replenishment whether you
slammed it really fast right after
training or if you just kind of eat your
normal meals afterwards so the only
context in which I think glycogen
replenishment matters within
bodybuilding circles is if you're
training the same muscle group twice in
one day
so for example let's say you train your
back first thing in the morning and then
you go back and train biceps in the
evening your bicep glycogen might still
be slightly depleted from the back
training because of the crossover there
so it'd probably be good a good idea to
slam some carbohydrate as quickly as you
can after the back workout so that those
stores are replenished for when you hit
biceps you know in seven or eight hours
or so
if you have a 24-hour period between
training sessions which most most people
do you don't really need to worry about
glycogen replenishment as long as you're
having some carbohydrate at some point
you know following the training session
it doesn't need to be consumed urgently
another potential exception to this
would be if you train fasted because in
that case you're not going to have that
sustained insulin response from the
pre-workout meal and I think that when
training fasted post-workout nutrition
is a little bit more urgent to begin
with because you do want to kind of
start that muscle building process which
you won't have from you know being in
the fed state before training so those
would be the slight exceptions there but
as a general rule I don't think you
really need to worry about consuming
coke or anything like that immediately
after your session all right let's see
the third rule from broach F number
three the most important rule of
bodybuilding nutrition is that you've
got to eat big if you want to get big
for me I like to stock up on some ice
cream you can go straight to the Ben &
Jerry's over here alright so the third
rule is basically you've got to eat big
to get big I think this is pretty bad
bodybuilding advice at least for the
goals that most people have because I
would say most people want to build lean
mass not just whatever mass and we know
from research that if you over feed
someone by a lot they don't gain much
more muscle mass but they do gain a lot
more fat mass so if it's just pure mass
that you're after and it doesn't matter
if it's coming from fat or a muscle then
eating big to get big is pretty good
advice in most other contexts I would
say it's pretty bad advice and part of
the reason for this is that I think it
puts the emphasis on the wrong thing
which in this case is the diet it kind
of implies that if you just eat a ton of
calories then your muscle will naturally
grow but it doesn't really work that way
you just get fatter what causes the
muscle to grow is a progressive training
stimulus so the emphasis should be
placed on your training not necessarily
your nutrition so the best bulking
advice I guess I could give is that you
need to be progressively getting
stronger and progressively improving
your workload in the gym overtime and
you simply use
a moderate caloric surplus in general
overall good nutrition to sort of
augment that training stimulus now when
it comes to people who are like extreme
hard gainers I could see this being kind
of a good rule of thumb so people who
are just like genetically very skinny
have very low appetites have a difficult
time putting on muscle mass this might
encourage them to actually get into a
moderate surplus because for those
people sometimes it's so hard for them
to even eat maintenance calories that
without you know eating some amount of
very calorically dense foods like junk
food it's gonna be hard for them to
actually grow at all
but still even in the case of people who
are genetically very thin and don't
build muscle easily this can't actually
be bad advice because I've seen people
who are quite skinny gain weight by
dirty bulking but not actually build
that much muscle so they still have a
very skinny appearance but now they went
from being lean and skinny to being
skinny fat which isn't the ideal
scenario so I think that the the key
really here is to focus on your training
put yourself in a moderate caloric
surplus and that's going to be the best
way to build muscle efficient
efficiently in the sense that you're
gonna build more lean tissue and less
fat tissue now I talked about this in
detail in my bare mode video and people
will sometimes think that I'm being a
little bit hypocritical because I've
endorsed a bear mode in the past but
bear mode is kind of different than just
dirty bulky bear mode is where you're
going for a specific look accepting a
certain amount of fat gained because you
just want to look heavier and bigger and
even in that case you tend to cut off
the body fat gained around 15 to 20
percent body fat so that's a specific
look and even in that case I wouldn't
say eat to eat big to get big is
necessary it's more of a psychological
approach to gaining weight also in that
video I discussed some research from
Garth and colleagues which basically
showed that when you feed people a small
surplus or a big surplus and have them
weight trained they gain about the exact
same amount of muscle but the big
surplus group gained much more fat so
that seems to be like kind of a strike
against this idea now since I published
that video
there was actually another study that
came out it was covered in the mass
research review a couple issues ago I
which found the same basic result
overfeeding subjects heavily having them
kind of dirty bulk resulted in a bit
more muscle gain but it resulted in much
more fat gain so that's something you
want to be aware of and it's led Eric
Helms in his write-up to conclude that
this leaves us with a relatively bleak
view of bulking at least in natural
lifters moderate surplus is all that's
required and it appears a surplus of any
substantial size is largely allocated
toward fat gain indicating The Tortoise
beats the hare in most cases but that
said if you're a novice who is lean or
someone who only cares about absolute
strength gain with no regard toward body
recomposition or relative strength feel
free to order a large pizza right now um
so yeah in terms of practical
recommendations for this I would say to
put yourself in a moderate caloric
surplus focus on progressively getting
stronger in the gym and aim to gain
somewhere in the ballpark of 0.5 to 1.5
percent of your body weight per month so
let's just say you're 150 pounds that
would be about one to two pounds of body
weight gained per month so over a year
that might be something like 10 to 20
pounds gained over the year now
obviously as you get more advanced it's
gonna be a lot harder for you to build
muscle mass so you might want to scale
those numbers down a little bit
especially if you want to stay leaner
for someone who's totally new to the gym
you might actually be able to build
muscle a little bit more quickly you
might want to scale the numbers up a bit
but as a general ballpark that's a
pretty good estimate range of where you
want to be those were I think his his
major pitfalls in the video let me know
if you guys want to see me do more kind
of parody videos and then response
videos like this I think it is actually
kind of a neat way for me to educate a
point and I had a lot of people say that
they wanted a genuine grocery haul like
not a troll' one so that's definitely
something I can do here on the channel
as well if that's something you'd like
to see I don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
shout out to bro Jeff and his Instagram
I'll put the the handle over here if
you'd like to check it out subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video