the next question is gonna be another
one all right what are the key factors
for a study to become strongly supported
so what I think this question is asking
is how do you know when to trust the
results of a study or how can you assume
that the results of a study are correct
so first things first what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna put up here the hierarchy
of scientific evidence and order of
importance so here at the bottom meaning
it's the weakest level of evidence you
have anecdote opinion pieces blog posts
and expert opinion moving up from there
you've got case studies done a single
individual which are not as strong of
evidence because it could just be that
that individual is atypical and so you
get a result that wouldn't be
representative until you get up to the
top where you have meta-analyses and
systematic reviews which are considered
to be the strongest form of scientific
evidence because they pull together the
results from multiple studies so they
would be stronger than just like a
single randomized controlled trial even
though they do themselves have their
pitfalls and they're not they're not
undeniable so what I'm gonna do here is
I'm gonna put up on the screen an
article or a series of articles that was
published in the mass research review if
you guys are members you can check it
out it's not you can read what I put up
here the first article was called when
to trust the results of a study and I'm
just going to quickly read some of this
here so they say findings of individual
studies are not nearly as trustworthy as
many people would like to believe there
are a variety of ways to wind up with
false positive results and the
publishing system more heavily rewards
positive results I mean there's a lot of
false positives so basically what they
say the most simplest and most
straightforward things to look for our
large effect sizes just basically
exactly what it sounds like say in a
exercise science study actually a large
amount of muscle growth small key values
so basically that just means if you have
a p-value that's below 0.01 then the
result is most likely not to be due to a
fluke but there's actually a real
meaningful effect and you have results
that can be explained by a known
mechanism so if you see a study let's
just say for example where one group eat
juicy fruit gum and you had another
group eat spearmint gum and the juicy
fruit gum saw five times the gains of
the
their group that would be a really weird
finding that you wouldn't expect to have
a mechanism for like there's nothing in
juicy fruit gum in that flavor that
you'd expect to drive muscle growth so
you'd want to look that that was
probably more of a skeptical eye and
there's also no other studies to support
that or any mechanism at all so that's
something you'd want to of course keep
in mind and there is so much more to it
than just that but that should give you
some general ballpark and I'll just
direct you guys over to the max research
review if you want to learn more about
that because in my opinion that is the
best resource out there on condensing
down that the scientific literature and
really helping its readers be able to
interpret it properly
[Music]