okay what is going on everyone I want to
welcome you all to this very highly
anticipated segment of the science
applied series I'm actually planning to
do a bunch more episodes in this series
moving forward so I think I'm gonna do
another cycle of push-pull legs after
this one and then I'll probably do a
couple upper/lower workouts and then
probably an arm workout um so if you
haven't already make sure you subscribe
so you don't miss any of those videos um
but this one has been a long time coming
so let's go ahead and dig right in with
this workout I'm so up first is a 5 to
10-minute warmup
I think it's really important to not
skip your warm-up on leg day since it
really does seem to reduce your risk of
injury and also increased performance
one 2006 review found that of the five
studies they examined three showed a
positive effect of warming up on injury
reduction and the two that didn't show a
preventative effect just focus too much
on stretching over just raising core
body temperature um so after 10 minutes
on the elliptical I just got into my
usual dynamic stretching and light foam
rolling routine and you can watch my
warmup a science explained video for
more detail on that
so we're kicking off the workout with
three sets of four to six reps on the
squat leaving two to three reps in the
tank here and while the squat may not be
the best and glute exercise from an
activation perspective the hip thrust is
a bit better if I had to pick just one
of these as an overall lower body mass
builder I think I would go with the
squat just because it has such a much
larger range of motion and just
activates more lower body musculature
overall comes as usual you'll want to
pair them it up and wait that's a heavy
working weight that you'll do your three
straight working sets with um so in
terms of setup the first thing we'll
cover is Bower placement I'm so screwed
you squat high bar with the bar resting
up on your traps or should you squat low
bar that's about resting down on your
rear delts of course high bar is the
placement I'm using here and that's
mostly just because I find it puts a
little less strain on my lower back and
my wrists even though I personally think
people make a bit of too much of a big
deal out of this biomechanical analysis
does suggest that the high bar squat
might emphasize the quads more due to a
greater moment arm at the knee joint and
a low bar squat may emphasize the glutes
more due to a larger moment at the hip
and this is supported by a 2017 review
which notes that those seeking to
develop the posterior chain musculature
like the glutes may want to use the low
bar back squat while those seeking
contribution from the quadriceps may
seek to use the high bar squad now an
obvious drawback of the high bar squat
is that pretty much everyone is weaker
using that variation since your upper
back muscles will become a limiting
factor at a certain point but I'm not
sure that as bodybuilders the absolute
load we're using is even really all that
relevant since progressive overload is
the main thing driving hypertrophy as
long as you're getting progressively
stronger on the squat I don't think it
really matters too much whether you're
using high bar or low bar that's when my
general coaching recommendations I just
say to just squat using whatever bar
placement feels most comfortable to you
um so you'll want to - three shallow
steps back to minimize energy loss on
the way out and then take a deep breath
deep into your stomach
using the valsalva maneuver basically
just hold the breath on the way down and
for most of the way up and then as you
break through the top half of the
concentric you can exhale your air
this will increase intra-abdominal
pressure and force transfer allowing you
to move heavier weights
however some research has shown this
technique to increase blood pressure
during lifting so while it's extremely
common in powerlifting you'll want to
use it at your own discretion in terms
of squat depth one 2013 study compared
quad hypertrophy over twelve weeks using
a shallow quarter squat or a deep squat
and found that the deep squat
outperformed a shallow squat at every
single quad site measured so when it
comes to the quads squatting deep is the
way to go and an earlier paper from
quatre asano ita√∫ showed that increased
squat death correlated perfectly in
tandem with increased glute activation
so activation increased as you went from
a partial to a parallel to a full squat
however it's important to keep in mind
that this study may have been confounded
by using absolute loading so in other
words the subjects we're using the same
loads across all three variations so the
deep squat might have just resulted in
more glute activation simply because
deep squats are harder the later 2016
study looking at the same question used
relative loading instead
and they didn't find much difference
between a parallel squat and a full-ask
to grass squat now I'd say the best
recommendation is to simply squat as
deep as you comfortably can and the
benefits of going past parallel are
probably not worth sacrificing your
technique and mobility capabilities for
and I think that in general you should
just squat with the stance that feels
most comfortable to you and one that
allows you to lift the most weight
I'm just how wide that is will depend
mostly on your bone structure and is
something you'll just have to experiment
with research has shown similar levels
of quad activation between a narrow
stance and a wide stance but glute
activation really does seem to increase
with a wider stance so if you're trying
to build the glutes as your main
priority you might want to consider
using a wider stance but for the quads
it really just doesn't seem to matter
now the last thing I want to cover on
the squat is butt wink
that's a butt wink is what you're seeing
right here at the bottom of the squat
where my lower back starts to round a
little bit and my butt kind of tucks in
under my hips whether or not this is
dangerous and should be eliminated it's
actually not really agreed upon in the
scientific community you have one camp
of practitioners who argue for the
flexibility theory so the idea that
tight muscles are causing the pelvis to
be sort of pulled posterior lis and to
fix that you need to stretch out those
muscles usually it's the hamstrings or
the calves
now I'm not much of a believer of the
flexibility theory myself I tend to lean
more toward the structural Theory camp
which argues that butt wink is
ultimately determined by your skeleton
so as you go deeper in the squat the
pelvis is simply forced to rotate
posterior Li because the head of the
femur basically just runs out of room as
it rotates in the hip socket which
causes the lower back to round a little
bit as well and the current consensus
amongst most strength professionals
seems to be that the fear over but wink
is a little bit overhyped
it doesn't seem that having a little bit
of butt wink will severely increase your
injury risk but just how much is too
much is difficult to say based on the
current literature my personal advice is
to limit your depth to the point where
your lower back just starts to round and
if you struggle with hitting depth
without any butt wink consider
experimenting with different stance
widths using a shoe with an elevated
heel or try some stretches for your
calf muscles as that does seem to help
quite a lot of people in terms of ankle
mobility okay so up next we're doing
three sets of eight reps on the Romanian
deadlift and we're basically including
this as a second compound movement
because as shown in this 2009 study out
of the six lower body movements tested
the squat ranked by far in dead last
place for hamstrings activation now so
we're not getting much hamstring work
out of the squat and despite the fact
that isolation movements tend to come
out on top for the hamstrings should
also include a hip extension based lift
like the Romanian deadlift because of
the very large degree of stretch on the
hamstrings with stretch being a
potentially valuable factor in terms of
anabolic signaling that's also a good
idea to combine hip extension and knee
flexion based movements because as shown
in this 2013 study the leg curl is
slightly better at activating the outer
hamstrings while the Romanian deadlift
is better for hitting the inner
hamstrings so using a combination of
these is best for overall hamstrings
development now as for a progression
scheme one thing I've been experimenting
with lately for Romanian deadlifts is
keeping the weight the exact same and
just adding one rep every week and the
reason I've been favoring this for RTLS
is that I've always found that once I
get to a certain weight or once a weight
gets back past a certain point my lower
back and glutes just start to take over
and I just can't get that same mind
muscle connection or just feeling of
stretch on the hamstrings which is the
whole point of the exercise so what you
want to do is find the most weight that
you can do eight reps with and still
feel a solid stretch in your hamstrings
and a mind-muscle connection and then
each week you'll use that same weight
but simply add one rep you can just keep
doing that as the week's go by all the
way up to say 12 reps or even more and
then this way you still get that same
progressive overload without having to
load the movement so heavily that your
hamstrings get overpowered by other
muscles okay so up next you can
optionally include two to three sets of
walking lunges for 20 total strides so
that's 10 reps on each leg and if you're
more of a beginner or an early
intermediate you can go ahead and skip
these if you like and the volume might
be a little bit redundant and now there
isn't a ton of literature on this
movement but when it has been studied
that's consistently shown impressive
results for the entire lower body for
example in this 2009 study you can see
that it actually had a slight edge on
the squad for vastus lateralis or outer
sweep activation it's clearly great for
the glutes and it isn't too bad for the
hamstrings either I'm so here you want
to drive your leading heel through the
floor and you want to minimize
contribution from your back leg so that
every rep is intentional and you're
minimizing forward momentum from the
rear leg also you just get such a great
stretch on the glutes through such a big
range of motion and while muscle
soreness really doesn't seem to be a
driver of hypertrophy I think it can be
useful as an indicator of muscle
activation and my experience really
nothing seems to get my glutes or quite
like these high rep walking lunges now
so up next we're doing single leg leg
extensions for 3 sets of 10 reps on each
leg and the reason we're training each
leg individually is because in my
experience this is the best way to avoid
asymmetries you may notice that when you
do both legs at once usually one leg
will contribute a little bit more than
the other I'm so doing these single
legged basically ensures that both quads
are receiving the exact same amount of
tension and remember that research shows
that vastus lateralis or outer sweep
activation is higher with the toes
pointed in so if you're looking to hit
the quad sweep more consider pointing
the toes in
but the activation differences here are
actually pretty small so I think you
should more or less use a foot position
that just feels comfortable for you and
focus on controlled mindful contractions
and up next we're doing 3 sets of 8 plus
4 reps on the single leg lying leg curl
again we're doing these unilaterally to
avoid left-to-right imbalances and one
thing we're doing here that's a little
different is altering ankle position for
the last 4 reps to help extend the set
and so for the first 8 reps you want to
plant our flex or point your toes down
and this will take the gastroc muscle of
the calf out of involvement basically
forcing the hamstrings to do the brunt
of the work and once you reach failure
or near failure on that a threat
immediately dorsi flex or point your
toes up and that'll get the gastroc more
involved and allow your calves to sort
of assist the hamstrings with knee
flexion now so I like to think of this
strategy as a sort of
mechanical for strep and when you point
your toes up your calves will help you
get an extra four reps or so also I
think it's important to remember that
one of the four hamstrings muscles the
biceps femoris short head doesn't even
cross the hip joint meaning it can only
be trained through knee flexion
movements so Romanian deadlifts really
can't hit this muscle you simply have to
curl in order to build it so up next are
two calf exercises first we're doing
three sets of ten to twelve reps on the
single leg press the calf raise this
will target both the soleus and the
gastrocnemius and this has all been
covered in a lot of detail in my calf
science explained video as well also
have that one linked in the description
and for our second calf movement we're
gonna be doing three sets of 20 reps on
the seated calf raise machine being a
bent leg movement this will
preferentially target the deeper but
actually bigger soleus muscle and even
though the research isn't perfectly
clear on whether high rep training is
better for targeting slow twitch muscle
fibers I think there is a strong
theoretical basis for it so I'm still of
the opinion that high rep work is better
for working this very typically slow
twitch dominant soleus and the main
thing you'll want to focus on here is
intentionally pausing at the bottom of
every rep basically allowing the elastic
energy in the Achilles tendon to
dissipate so that the actual calf
muscles are in fact doing the work
alright so guys that's going to wrap up
this sign supplied leg day I hope you
guys really liked it I'm going to be at
the Toronto Pro Show Expo this weekend
so June 2nd and June 3rd so if you
happen to be around make sure you come
and say hello I'd love to get to meet
some more of you guys and before we go I
want to thank audible for sponsoring
this video one question that I get asked
all the time is what books I read and
since it's not always easy to be reading
when you're kind of traveling and on the
go audible has been my source of
audiobooks for the last three or four
years I'm just because I find it to be
so convenient I'm so I've been listening
to the book sapiens by vol Harare I
think I'm saying that right and it's
really interesting so far so if you guys
would like to get started with an
exclusive free 30-day trial and your
free book of choice you can go to
audible.com forward slash Jeff Nippert
or if you text
Jeff Nippert to 500 500 you can get
started right away and I'll have that
linked as the first link down there in
the description
and it comes very highly recommended so
make sure you go and check out audible
so thank you audible so much for
supporting the video and the channel I
really appreciate it thank you guys so
much for watching and I'll see you guys
all here for the next sign supplied
video and I think it's going to be a new
push day so I'll see you all then