that is the extent of H Hogan steroid
use now this doctor that you're talking
about is that the same one that's been
in trouble and
convicted holy well basically I'd
rather not comment on that woo Scott
where did you get this what an amazing
[Music]
clip hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I had to have that printed on a
t-shirt so that I remember what company
I work for another thing I remember is
that the80s were unbelievable and guess
who's from the80s that's right Hulk
Hogan himself the greatest American
wrestler of all time no not real
wrestling for whom that title is
probably Jordan Burrows don't kill me if
I that up
please but real real wrestling
professional wrestling Hulk Hogan is the
man and what we're going to do today
we're going to look into his training
we're going to look into his diet we're
going to look into his supplements I
think to the extent that that is legal
and we're going to be rendering you some
exercise scientists sort of advice and
 sort of not so funny jokes that
I wake up at night and regret I ever
said let's go do some regretful things 3
2 1 hit it okay that's me when I was 10
years old what
damn I said the same thing IA I weigh
196 lbs what Scott the video guy I I
present a challenge to you ready make
sense of that does it doesn't make sense
when you're 196 to 10 years old and
you're not really fat as much as you are
just fing
enormous if keeps going in that
direction eventually you'll be like 6' 7
and 350 and beating the living out
of everyone in the world Scott how tall
is the Hulk 67 67 I somehow remembered
that 67 is an uncomfortable height and
these like 350 lb that's nothing you
ever want
with apparently you couldn't with him
when he was 10 years old either oh wait
196 lbs look how fat my head was that is
a huge head I would know something about
that you were my size then I was I was
196 lbs when I was 10 years old is that
arcenio Hall yeah amazing when I
graduated from high school I was 300 lb
300 lb high school graduate no big deal
and right now I'm about
295 oh he slimmed down I've trained 20
years two hours a day to look like I do
but the things that I am not
is I'm not a steroid abuser just a
intelligent steroid user I assume but
there's a situation where steroids Hulk
Hogan and my private physicians have
something all in common and these are
the situations and on two or three
different occasions I get HT in the
ring my man and that Sports Therapy
involves hours of the ultrasound to get
the
blood to do whatever the ultrasound does
don't worry it doesn't do going
again the electric stem to get the
nerves going yeah ultrasound is just a
electric stem also insanely overvalued
PT is a dog
 I back then it was probably even
worse PT now is fine physical therapy I
mean there's people like what is his
name Adam means Adam means me a k i ns
on Instagram look him up he's awesome uh
Quinn henck also awesome another another
physical therapist Sam Spinelli Dr Sam
Spinelli he's great uh there's a few
really really awesome PT and like
seemingly a million physical therapists
that are just make belief artists who do
all kinds of potions and lotions and
electronic equipment that doesn't do
hardly dick um so he's probably getting
a lot of that but I think he's going to
get to the point we saying here it's
really the steroids that helped him hit
it Hulk and prescription drugs by my
physician that I trusted legal
prescription drugs and those involved a
synthetic male hormone which is a form
of a steroid hell yeah he must be hurt
all the time Hey scottt ow I hurt my
myself I have cure my man that is the
extent of Hulk Hogan steroid use now
this doctor that you're talking about is
that the same one that's been in trouble
and
convicted holy well basically I'd
rather not comment on
that where did you get this what an
amazing
clip so H doctor uh got in trouble
forgiving people the baseball guy right
was it one of those guys he might have
had been a doctor to those
people apparently they had Hulk on and
Ario was under the impression that Hulk
was going to come clean oh steroid use
and H just doubled down hell yeah that's
the story that I that I've been reading
you dude he should have dug even deeper
he'd be like so what about steroids be
like uh honestly or I don't know what
those are like you don't know what
steroids are like I've never heard of
them next question I love it well
typical uh typical big media interaction
for you uh
lying guests and uh lying hosts fun all
right let's see what else is going on
Scott you know what I desperately want
to see next something that is colored an
insane degree of
yellow oh look thank God I teach you
guys how to get that bicep pump on real
good where is he it looks like he's in
his living room but also in a gym at the
same time is this what Florida training
looks like I wonder and the one thing I
like about the bicep pump is you don't
have to train your whole body the visual
makes you look like everything is pumped
up I love it this is the worst bro
advice I've ever heard in my life like
good thing about biceps is to make the
rest of you look good like no no they
just make your biceps look good but
whatever who's counting yeah and you
don't have to train your whole body
which is like lazy excuse I'm
not saying Hulk Hogan's a lazy
quite the opposite but the people don't
need to hear this is what I'm trying to
say so the first thing you do is you get
a set of dumbbells a really light set of
dumbbells because weightlifting is not
about lifting
weights check next so far so good
weightlifting is all about full range of
motion
hey the Hulk Hogan factoid full range of
motion exercise to failure correct form
other an exercise to failure and well
all of these have nuances this is a
great list of recommendation so
basically pick the weight you can lift
with a full range of motion take that
weight to failure with the correct form
and if you can do that for however many
reps you're looking for then you have
the right weight in your hands Man Hulk
snuck up on me with that one huge
respect in doing the exercise to failure
and correctly this will give you that
awesome shape for the girls this will
really firm and tighten everything up
just how you guys want it he just
feeding these what they want
firm and tight I'm so
glad that at least some fraction of the
fness industry is beyond that now
um that whole firm and tight nonsense
was with us for Generations every girl
that ever saw someone is in shape that
lifted weights she'd be like okay so
like how are you like such good shape
like well I lift weights okay like
that's cool but like I just SP to like
tone shut the up Cindy toning is a not
extent physiological concept there's no
such thing there's two different tissues
in your arm dummy well other than bone
and all that other there's muscle
and there's fat and you have too much
goddamn fat on your arm and not enough
muscle what you need to do is get the
muscles nice and big and then try not
eating the kitchen sink all the time so
that your fat reduces and there comes
the visual effect of toning but if you
lift in some certain special way there's
nothing weird changing from fat to
muscle or back and forth that's all
nonsense on the nonsense train it's got
video I remember all those '90s tapes
who said like build long lean muscles
the Go versus short fat muscles what the
does that even mean I well just a joke I
do not endorse the choking of women see
if that one gets us canceled this
without a doubt is the best bicep
exercise there is without a doubt and
that's science and with the fit kit with
the go the pro the cookies and the
protein it's a win-win situation Scott
how are my ad reads compared to Hulk
Hogan
we got some work to do there's a high
bar with the way I would do this ad read
was the exact same room
setup all the same color benches and
everything I'm wearing the yellow and
the red and instead of a pile of
probably dog semi Foods semi
supplement situations that are insanely
overpriced I have just one versagrip you
would think what's that going to do
one is enough trust me like what shut up
why aren't we allowed to talk loud
around it because it could wake
up what's going to happen if it wakes
up it'll allow you if it becomes
awake to grab any barbell or dumbbell or
pull-up or anything and no longer be
hindered by your forearm string that
your legs your back your shoulders can
finally develop to their true size
and so you get the highest quality
training you've ever gotten it's better
than every strap ever made and as much
as it pains my heart to say it's even
better than chalk what the the person's
like
wait that's good right yeah that's good
so wake it up God damn it put it on your
hand put the other one on your hand get
the code put it in the link and get you
a versal grip how's that for ad read H I
give myself a 7 out of
10 anyway continuing on oh yeah
oh no what happened to full range of
motion we're going back a couple decades
couple decades pre full range of motion
look at that sweaty thigh where am
I
lowbar I don't even know what exercise
that is oh leg extension okay and it was
just like grimacing in place all right 3
by10 Grimace all right RP hypertrophy
app very well
[Music]
folks two things one if you don't look
like this eyewise during training you a
little you need to up your
intensity by a th000 and second of all
he's doing behind the neck pull-ups holy
 it's a very effective
exercise um line of pull wise it doesn't
stress the lats
anymore probably a little less to be
completely honest um if your shoulders
are cool with it give it a shot if not
cool with it don't give it a shot give
it a shot and stop in any case this oh
and the music is so godamn good I want
to train in seol Fitness very very
Florida why is it freezing like that
Scott it's the editing it's edited on be
if you
watch oh God that's soing
awful like thanks for making me think
I'm having a seizure I forgot it was
[Music]
onbeat so good are we even critiquing
exercise anymore on this Friday
segment that we haveing God H the man oh
and his his shirts cut in the back just
in case it wasn't revealing enough to
wear Stringer top you got to cut some
lines into that mother I guess I guess
uh girls wear that kind of to the
club now
[Music]
nowaday okay I don't even understand
what's going on anymore he's teleporting
between
lifts real quick like you look at these
videos you're like he his arms aren't
that big but here's the thing when
somebody's 6' s and they have what looks
visually with no height reference to be
a generally muscular arm they're
enormous I think you have like 24-in
biceps or some like that biceps
24-in muscular arm flexed uh it's
intense
this isn't terrible technique oh
isometric stop with 135 that's tough
that is really tough he is absurdly
strong some absolutely the wrongest
angle you could ever film cable flies
from thanks producers hey that's good
range motion those look like real
weights
[Applause]
maybe you you're not jacked enough and
you know why many reasons one of them is
that you do not maniacally laugh while
hitting most musculars in the RP
hypertrophy
app what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now it's something you can improve upon
quite easily and you'll definitely look
exactly like Hulk Hogan shortly
thereafter assuming you contact to
Florida doctor of course how can I get
muscles like you
guys G is kid I feel like first of all
that wall is going to break and
someone's going to come out of it but
second of all um
steroids that I'll just tell you the
answer it's steroids kid Welcome to the
Real World like Neo using your eyes for
the first time and by eyes I mean hands
to put a trend needle up your ass we're
getting canceled for sure little kid
talking about me like no mister I
just want to be like D out of here
there's only one me okay Jesus start by
getting it safe with the HW Mania
workout set great this is unbelievable
this is the greatest thing I've ever
seen in my life whoa whoa whoa whoa how
you doing all you little hookers this is
the Incredible Hulk Hogan the WWF
heavyweight champion of the world and
I'm really excited about this new
Hulkamania workout set I eat my vitamins
H yeah you know that I say my prayers
and I exercise every day because keeping
my body body fit is very important to me
it should be important to you because
when your body is in good shape you'll
feel better it feels like he just ran
into the recording studio and blurted
out as much as he could in one
breath and
then this is motivating as
Fu don't slow down the hulkster's
watching
you is he really from the tape how does
that work this is
incredible this is why the 80s everyone
was fit CU they were listening to
like this now what do you listen to
Kendrick Lamar Scott is that two people
or one person that was a good workout
but remember you're not done until the
cool down is
completed I could tell you guys the
science of why a cool down actually
reverses some of the adaptations to set
in motion and not to do it but at this
point but I don't even know what we're
doing here anymore I just want to hear
more of this you know what I mean
we got to be too cool to
fool all right you got to gradually slow
down that body man just walk around the
room and breathe normally for a little
bit I like the wild unspecified time of
a little bit like it's like a few
seconds like a few
minutes this is awesome normally do any
it's just way you would off and go
somewhere else technically cooling down
but whatever stay in your room you don't
want to like poison anyone with your
excessive radiation all right this is
really fun guys however if you want more
fun don't worry more videos still ahead
but if you want extra extra super super
much much more more fun we have a
members area where an extended uncut
edition of this video lives right now
and you could have it in tons of other
videos for a very small fee click around
see if you can get into that and uh
maybe we'll see you there hard Hulk show
us your fridge everything in here is
organic sweet I Public Service
Announcement organic is a giant scam
study after study after study shows that
dependably organic foods do nothing
different than conventionally Farm Foods
but they cost predictably much more
don't fall for the we've got
the yogurts we've got blueberries um my
favorite part about this segment of the
video is that there's like a rock riff
in the background like but it's like
yogurt blueberries organic like this
isn't this is the least metal I've
ever seen in my life we've got almond
milk protein to wash down vitamins of
course protein to wash down vitamins
that's pretty backwards all right the
organic cookies okay we're just putting
organic in front of things now I
understand the plastic is probably
organic as well back in the hardcore
wrestling days did people talk about
protein as much as they did now no back
in the hardcore wrestling days people
talked about the money and the miles and
who could drink the most
beer this is the most honest Fitness
 I've ever heard in my life like
what' you guys do in the ' 80s for
Fitness like I don't know steroids and
in and beer oh do you have sex many
strippers he's like oh yeah all the time
too plus did I mention cocaine and I
mean I would start out and I would eat
12 fried eggs in the morning two
hamburger patties oatmeal and everything
would have butter on it damn he's still
alive
right unbelievable I wasn't aware I
wasn't educated as far as quality of
food and how much quantity I should eat
I was just hungry all the time what did
you eat before and after imag match this
is fascinating I really want to hear
this I also want that hairstyle Scott
did you know that I technically can
still grow out that kind of hair
absolutely what a
disaster could you imagine my already
ugly face with a skullet whatever yeah
skullet but it's also like my hair at a
certain length will start to curl like a
juice
scallet soing worst bro the pre-match
meal was probably three Miller lights
and two Tylenols
this is the most awesome nutritional
advice I've ever seen I mean yeah
wrestling's Fed Up Man three Miller
lights to get you in that party
atmosphere they have just hydration and
carbohydrates in there the Tylenol to
make all the pain go away plus the
alcohol to make the pain go away makes
sense let's see what else and then
afterwards the postmatch meal was
probably 12 Miller lights so that's how
it was holy it's so funny too
because people I ask like pro athletes
like oh like what's your diet like and
sometimes it's nice and it's good and
they know things and sometimes it's like
you don't want to ask me that question I
just
exist not we're not probably never going
to critique this kind of video I don't
know if there's a video of this but I
used to work with football players
considerably at a pretty high Collegiate
level of some interaction with pro
football players some of the diets that
football players have is they just like
eat when they're hungry they eat kind of
whatever they want and that's it and and
they have they're jacked and lean and
just cuz they're genetic Freaks and
people are like oh like this guy's diing
it's like you know that's not how it
works at least Hulk's being super honest
which is really sweet all right that was
sweet Hulk Hogan's the man the 80s were
awesome millerite is a
performance-enhancing
beverage and cocaine's a hell of a drug
folks I don't know what the we learned
from this but maybe we had some fun in
any case Hulk Hogan gets a legend who
does whatever the he wants and the rest
of us deal with it out of 10 and with
that I'll see you guys next time all
right this video here uh YouTube thinks
it's important but I don't know do the
lizard people run YouTube and should you
really not be clicking on it I'll leave
that to you see you next time