if you want to get strong you absolutely
have to live heavy weights but for most
people who are interested in supporting
their muscular such that they offset any
age related decline there really isn't a
need to lie about the henan size
principle which many people out there
are doing and claiming that you
absolutely need to use the heaviest
weights possible in order to build
strength and muscle Dam who hurt you
Hubie I didn't realize people out there
were lying about henman's size principle
odd thing to be lying about um but yeah
I agree if you're just concerned about
staving off sopia and totally you don't
need to LIF 90% of your max all the time
with that being said with him earlier
mentioning increases in bone mineral
density as a result of lifting it is
worth noting that those adaptations to
my knowledge are relatively strongly
related to the weight you're lifting and
so higher intensities heavier weights
are meaningfully responsible for
increasing bone mineral density and
making your bone stronger in a way so
it's just worth knowing that the
research on bone mineral density is
Divergent with his recommendation here
now I'm sure the powerlifters and the
will say no