fellow YouTuber natural hypertrophy
recently called Power building an
Abomination I
disagree welcome back now real but
non-medical Dr Milo wolf here with wolf
coaching and today we're talking about
power building let me break it down for
you first what is power building and
secondly why do people use it power
building is a Training Method almost
always used by people who don't compete
in bodybuilding or powerlifting who just
really want to enjoy training and get a
really good amount of muscle growth and
strength gains what does power Building
look like well usually they'll focus on
the main three lifts the squat the bench
the the lift getting stronger in those
to some degree right that could be one
rep max strength it could be three rep
max strength it could be more General
strength around five or max strength but
generally they also want to see their
squat bench and deadlift improve in
terms of strength however they also want
to get a lot of hypertrophy usually all
over their body which is kind of what
separates them from Pals one they don't
necessarily care about competing and two
they also want growth in other areas
like their back like their biceps like
potentially their calves sorry Omar and
because of this here's what their
training sessions usually look like they
start with some variation of the squat
bench or deadlift for relatively Low
Reps usually between one and six reps
they might do a squatting variation a
benching variation and then maybe the
rest of their session is dedicated to
hypertrophy work typically the rest of
their session as a hypertrophy work is
pretty hypertrophy optimized they might
do relatively higher reps they might do
a variety of rep ranges they might pick
exercises that are more stable that
allow them to get a better stretch
essentially the aim of power building is
to get a good deal of muscle growth and
a good deal of strength without
competing and while just enjoying your
training having a kind of natural flow
to your sessions as far as starting
session a little bit heavier doing those
heavy lifts on the squat bench deadlift
and then moving on to hypertrophy work
that's going to help you put on size now
to get one thing out of the way
immediately is power building the best
approach for gaining size no that's
bodybuilding is power building the best
approach to make you a better power
lifter no that's power lifting however
power building is basically never used
to make you the best in terms of size or
in terms of strength or in terms of
competing in bodybuilding or competing
in powerlifting that was never the aim
the aim was always to get a blend of
both and to just enjoy your training
your goals might not neatly conform into
those of a bodybuilder or those of power
lifter and that's exactly what power
building is for but alongside mentions
of things like spider physiques and
other strange Notions natural
hypertrophy has called Power building an
Abomination and So within this video
while trying to remain pretty civil let
me respond to some of those critiques
First Natural hypertrophy makes the
claim that weight weight building the
combination of weightlifting and
bodybuilding or Strong building the
combination of strong man and
bodybuilding would be just as good so
why the obsession with power building
let me touch on weight building first
it's unlikely weight building would be
as good as power building for
hypertrophy for about four distinct
reasons reason number one weightlifting
has a pretty strong technical component
you'll often fail lifts because your
Technique wasn't perfectly on point for
hypertrophy this isn't great whereas
powerlifting with relatively slower
movement velocities allowing you to get
a little bit closer to failure is a lot
better lifts also aren't as technical
that brings me to my second point in
weightlifting you have very few Ecentric
contractions after the lift is over you
typically just drop the weight and
eccentrics as we know from the research
are actually fairly important for
hypertrophy reason number three from the
research we have weightlifting may or
may not have higher injury rates than
powerlifting and so when you're looking
for something to complement bodybuilding
training maybe powerlifting is a little
bit less injurious the same applies to
Strong building or combining strong man
with bodybuilding training strong man
does seem to have notably higher injury
rates than power lifting finally as far
as strong buildings concerned many
strong man exercises are isometric
contractions which again Mis benefits of
Ecentric contractions there is also a
lot of Str and exercises they're
typically limited by cardiovascular
ability than actual hyper effect and so
when we're talking about combining two
different disciplines that allow you to
gain a good amount of strength but also
a good amount of hypertrophy
powerlifting lends itself a little bit
better to gaining size than either
weightlifting or strong man and
specifically with lower injury rates the
second claim I've seen made by natural
hypertrophy and other people is that the
squat bench deadlift are really not
great exercises for hypertrophy and the
better Alternatives might be in this
case the push-up or the dip instead of
the bench the hack squat instead of the
squat and the RDL instead of deadlift by
and large I do agree with this I think
the push-up and dip are great for chest
and tricep hopy I think the RDL is
better than a deadlift typically the
hack squat however doesn't quite compare
to a regular squat the hack squat on
account of how the movement is set up
with the load being directly above the
hips likely doesn't do a great job of
growing your glutes know your adductors
or even potentially your lower back the
squat low bar or high bar does a great
job growing the quads the gluteus
maximus the Ador Magnus and even
potentially lower back the hack squat
simply doesn't do this more importantly
though when it comes to replacing the
bench with a push-up or a dip or the
squat with a hack squat there's a
psychological motivation component most
people get motivated and gain some
self-efficacy by seeing other people
achieve greater things than themselves
and really how often can you compare
yourself to someone stronger than you on
the hack squat are there really that
many people around you doing five reps
on the hack squat that you can compare
yourself to is there a sport centered
around hack squatting from which you can
draw inspiration a as to how much
stronger you could get how much harder
you can push the odds are there isn't
and so the psychological motivation
component the enjoyment component is
often a lot lower with movements like
the hack Squad next natural hypertrophy
refers to many Buzz wads as to why
paling might be worse he mentions
central nervous system fatigue stimulus
fatigue ratio less tendon strain better
range of motion now I'm pretty sure he
doesn't have citations for any of these
things certainly not C central nervous
system fatigue stimulus to fatigue ratio
tendon strain and I don't think he
really understands range of motion he's
denounced length and partials before I
think we all sort of agreed with the
fact that the negative was most
important because it's one the muscle
lengthens and so the lengthened portion
of the movement and of the range of
motion is also most important and from
that was bir the concept of lengthen
partials so lengthened partial is in
reality the left child of something like
a like a weird cluster to set rest PS
plus like biomechanics because it ENT
tells essentially that you're going to
do your set and when you are done with
your set and you can no longer hit for
range of motion you're going to do
partial reps in that portion of the
range of motion where the muscle is
lengthened so the end of the range of
motion but I would be happy to have any
citations that he has on hand but my
hunches these are just some Buzz words a
lot of people use mistakenly to justify
their training choices sometimes it's
good to have a movement with a shitty
resistance curve because it forces you
to fight through certain sticking points
that are going to then be very very
challenging for the muscle next natural
hypertrophy makes the WID claim that
Sumo that lifts only exist because they
allow you to shorten the range of motion
and as a result lift more weight putting
aside the fact that about 50% of lifters
those in the higher weight classes or
heavier weight classes typically
deadlift more conventional than Sumo the
idea that Sumo deadlifts are less range
of motion than conventional stems from a
pretty heavy misunderstanding of range
of motion motion and I can talk about
this cuz that's kind of my PhD you know
Dr my wolf range of motion should mostly
be viewed as the degree of angular
motion at each individual joint during
an exercise as opposed to the movement
of the bar right yes the movement of the
bar is a little bit lesser during a Sumo
the lift compared to a conventional
deadlift but as far as hypertrophy is
concerned and as far as joint angles are
concerned you get more knee extension
range of motion at the knee right during
a Sumo lift versus a con ition that lift
you get about the same hip flexion range
of motion during a sum lift as a
conventional and so while there's less
range of motion in terms of how far is
the bar moving as far as actual joint
range of motions concerned the two lifts
really aren't that dissimilar next
natural hyper makes this claim that
power Builders or power building doesn't
have any methodology my question is if
you're not going to compete you're
training for fun you want a good blend
of General strength and size why do you
need a super specific methodology there
really isn't any super compelling
evidence in the first place that
periodization plays a large role for
strength gains and certainly not for
hypertrophy so why would they need Super
intricate periodization when they could
just get a good amount of size and
strength training as they currently do
for example why would you need to taper
and why would you need to Peak and spend
several weeks on this that you could be
spending actually training instead when
you're just maxing out for the fun of it
right you could just go into the gym and
max out will you perform your best no
but equally what you have to go through
2 or 3 weeks of weird training and or
deloading SL tapering in order to get
your best performance and you're not
even competing no you won't and in
general this trend of speaking about
power Builders themselves as if he has a
few power builders in mind he really
hates instead of power building as a
concept continues where he says power
buers don't put any effort into
accessories blah blah blah again it just
seems like hating on the people more so
than the method you can absolutely put
effort into accessories as a power buer
I know many people that do so let's try
and focus on the concept rather than the
people he then claims that all these
power Builders have spider mode
physiques first of all that's a
completely insane term second of all the
impact of exercise order on hypertrophy
really isn't that clear from the
research just because you your arm work
or your back work after squatting or
benching work doesn't seem to say that
you'll necessarily see much less
hypertrophy than if you did it first so
the idea that you could just do your arm
work first in the session and get a lot
more hypertrophy and avoid the ooh the
spider mode physique that just doesn't
seem to be true based on the research we
have furthermore by doing some of your
compound lifts first especially for
example a squat for at least five reps
you might actually be putting out more
size overall in bodybuilding
specifically there's kind of two main
factors here right there's conditioning
but that's besides the point but there's
also muscularity and symmetry in terms
of muscularity training your quads your
glutes your hamstrings your pecs your
triceps as you were during powerlifting
first in a session is going to really
emphasize the X taper right that X frame
that is really prized in bodybuilding
likewise as far as symmetry goes it
provides a nice blend of lower body and
upper body as far as providing a nice
shape he also puts forth this idea that
you need to isolate every single muscle
group in your body if you're power
building or bodybuilding the truth is
you don't if you want to compete in
bodybuilding would you be well advised
to actually isolate a lot of the major
muscle groups yeah probably but the
point is power BS don't necessarily care
about their calves shout out Omar maybe
they just want to grow muscle overall
enjoy their training get a little bit
stronger and that's it not everyone
needs to min max every single muscle
group natural hypertrophy then makes the
demonstrably false claim that the
hypertrophy rep range is between three
and 15 repetitions we have data showing
that doing sets of three is far less
efficient than doing say sets of 10 in
fact doing seven sets of three with 3
minutes of rest was equivalent for
hypertrophy to doing three sets of 10
with 90 seconds rest doing those triples
took the people 70 minutes doing those
sets of 10 those three sets took people
17 minutes and they saw the same growth
and so yeah sure if you're happy to
spend five times or four times the
amount of time in the gym be my guest do
triples but there's a good chance that
both as far as time efficiency and as
far as how much fatigue each set causes
versus how much hypertrophy it gives you
doing sets of three really shouldn't be
part of the hypertrophy repe B Lear
research we have the true hypertrophy
rep range is between 5 and 50
repetitions finally doing those sets of
three in your training is probably just
going to bang you up a little bit more
so just as a broad recommendation I
don't think you should recommend sets of
three for hypertrophy natural
hypertrophy goes on to misunderstand
intensity saying that a lot of
influencers say oh you need to train
really intensely for power but not so
intensely for a bodybuilder that's
either a STW man or just displays a lack
of understanding what intensity means in
a sport Science context intensity and
Sport science refers to percentage of
one rep max within lifting right and so
yeah bodybuilders don't need to train
with as much intensity power LIF do need
to train with high intensities AK High
weights in order to be specific to the
sport but bodybuilders or people
interested in gting size they don't need
to do that finally natural hypertrophy
just refers to anecdotes from Silver era
and bronze era bodybuilders saying you
know they didn't train with heavy
weights they they focused on hyper up
ranges and those good movements like the
ha Squad Etc you can use anecdotes to
any level I know plenty of power
builders that are bigger than natural
hypertrophy does that make Power
building better than pure hypert
training no not for gaining size but
that's the point of this video Power
building is a good approach if you want
to gain size and also want to gain
strength you might gain about 80 or 90%
of the potential size and strength you
could gain if you were to Simply
dedicate yourself entirely to one
pursuit or the other so it gives you a
really good blend of both and more
importantly this is for people who
aren't competing in either powerlifting
or bodybuilding or who just want to
enjoy their training and structure it as
they wish to dogging on power building
is really not constructive and I think
more importantly people should train as
they please especially if there are no
competitive Endeavors if you want to
optimize your physique train for Pure
hypertrophy talk about things like
spider physique be my guest that's
totally fine but some people just want
to enjoy their training takeaways from
the video first Power building is a fun
way to get most of your size and
strength gains you yet maybe about 90%
if you want to optimize optimize train
purely for hypertrophy or purely for
strength but if you find it fun and
you're happy with these trade-offs
absolutely go for it if you're not
concerned with competing or maximizing
muscle growth or maximizing strength
gains just take this approach enjoy it
and I'll see you guys my subscribers in
that next one
peace the goals of power building or to
game I'm going to shoot myself
now how the [ __ ] does one make this stay
up The Vibes here are not Immaculate I'm
going to tell you that now my good
friend natural I approach be like power
building we speak French I am not French
but uh I am a French man