the hip Frost created and popularized by
Bread contourers in 2006. it's since
become a commonplace in many gyms across
the world
however does it actually grow muscle in
the glutes stick around and find out
soon to be Dr Milo Walter from Wolf
coaching and today we're talking about
the hip thrust the hip thrust is
commonly used as a means to maximize the
hypertrophy of the gluteus maximus
muscle and to generally provide a good
hip extension exercise from what I
understand there's a few rationales for
the hip thrust for one the rationale
initially was to take out the lower back
as a limiting factor in the movement
many other exercises train the glutes
but often involve the lower back think
of the squat the deadlift the RDL and so
forth another rationale for the hip
thrust comes down to this internal
moment arms in Vivo studies on internal
moment arms at the hip suggest that as
your hip becomes more flexed as is the
case at the bottom of the squat for
example as you get closer and closer to
full hip extension the internal moment
arm and internal leverage of the gluteus
maximus increases whereas the attitudes
decreases in other words the more flexed
your hips are the greater the
contribution potentially of the adapters
and the more extended your hips are
potentially the greater the contribution
of the gluteus maximus muscle aka the
glutes aka the butt thus this has led to
people speculating that training the top
portion of hip extension would
preferentially train and hypertrophilic
Boots whereas training the bottom
portion of the extension like during a
squat would preferentially train and
hypertrophy with the alkal muscles enter
the hip thrust by limiting range of
motion to only that top portion of hip
extension the hip thrust could
potentially preferentially grow the
glutes while limiting growth in the
adductor muscles additionally compared
to say the deadlift or the squat the
moment arms involved at the knee and the
range of motion that the knee is going
through during the thrust would heavily
limit the growth of the quadriceps and
hamstrings muscles as well in other
words the hip thrust is a prime
candidate to somewhat isolate and
maximize the growth of the gluteus
maximus muscle without really growing
any of the other big lower body muscles
like quads hamstrings or actors but does
it actually do that this is what a
series of three recent Studies have
broadly tried to examine before we get
into those I'd briefly like to address
EMG studies some of the rationale around
hip thrusts as a means to really grow
the glutes without anything else
predominantly we're based off EMG
studies EMG is roughly a proxy for
Activation of a muscle and previous EMG
studies had shown greater activation of
the glutes say compared to the glutes
during a squat EMG or electromyography
is essentially a way of measuring
electrical impulse in a muscle during an
exercise EMG cannot be used necessarily
as a good proxy for hypertrophy so while
their remg study is showing greater EMG
readings in the glutes during say a hit
thrust versus a squat and showing lower
EMG readings for example in the quads
and hamstrings in the head thrust versus
a squat
these cannot necessarily be used
to make the strong prediction that you
would only hypertrophy the glutes or
predominantly hypertrophilic glutes
during hip thrust equally just because
you see higher EMG readings in the
glutes during the hip thrust versus
during the squat does not mean that hip
thrust is necessarily a better glute
exercise than the squat would be EMG
cannot be used that way and EMG likely
is not a good predictor of hypertrophy
anyways back to those three studies I
mentioned earlier I'd like to talk about
these studies to inform you whether or
why you should include hip thrusts in
your training the first study looked at
the inclusion of hip thrusts in a
training program and whether or not that
increased glute growth one group was
performing both stiff-layered deadlifts
and leg presses whereas the other group
was doing the same amount of sets for
both these exercises so doing the same
amount of work on stiff layer deadlifts
and leg presses but on top of all this
added in some additional hip thrust
volume when adding in additional hip
thrusts so doing more overall work
across the week stemming from additional
hip thrusts they did see more glute
growth what this says essentially is
that the hip thrust does train the
glutes and if you do additional hip
thrusts on top of what you're currently
doing you will likely see more glute
growth compared to not doing anything
additional the limitation with the study
when going Beyond this kind of
conclusion is that it's unknown to us
whether participants in the group doing
just simply a deadlifts unlike press
would have seen the same glute growth
had they just done more sets to get the
same total number of weekly sets for the
glutes as the other group did by adding
in additional hip thrusts so we're not
sure if it's the hip thrust or if it's
just the additional volume but at the
very least the hip thrust did seem to
grow the glutes in the study so they do
train your glutes and that's good news
the second study is not yet published
but it has been pre-printed and that's
the study by Plotkin and colleagues in
this study they took beginners and had
them train either exclusively with deep
squat results or exclusively with hip
thrusts and they look at the hypertrophy
of the gluteus maximus muscle they
looked at hypertrophy of the quads the
hamstrings and even the outer muscles
both groups did the same amount of sets
across the week in other words as
opposed to that previous study I
mentioned they actually did the same
number of sets so we can actually look
at okay well does the squat grow The
Roots more or does the hip thrust grow
the glutes more between these two
exercises interestingly both the squat
group and the hip thrust group saw
similar grouped growth in other words
both a squat and the head thrust did a
similar job of growing your glutes
however here's the interesting bit as
far as the quads the adapters and the
hamstrings went first of all the
hamstrings didn't really seem to grow
much in either condition as we've
previously thought the hamstrings don't
really get trained all that well during
the squat or during the hip thrust
however there was about twice the growth
in the quads and the outers in the squat
group compared to the hip thrust group
so this study kind of LEDs credibility
to one previous hypothesis and that's
that the hip thrust really does a good
job of training the glutes and doesn't
grow other areas of your lower body
nearly as well whereas the squat on the
other hand saw pretty good growth in the
quads the adopters and the glutes
interestingly there was not much growth
in the upper glute in either the squat
or the hip thrust condition so if you're
someone who wants overall glute growth
you may need to add in other exercises
like hip abduction exercises to more so
Target the upper glute versus the lower
glute as a takeaway from this study
where we can pretty safely say is that
both the squat and hip thrust will train
your gluteus maximus muscle and they
will both hypertrophy it likely to a
somewhat similar extent but the squat
will grow the quads and outers pretty
well as well so if you want an overall
good lower body exercise the squat is
great on the other hand if you just want
something to grow your glutes
specifically and not really grow the
rest of your lower body muscle that much
the hip thrust is a pretty good exercise
for that purpose of just growing now I
want to mention a slightly more advanced
interpretation of this study there's a
few things to note number one because
these were relatively untrained
participants they may not have pushed
quite as close to failure or volitional
failure as was used in the study and as
is explained this video I made here as
they did in the hip thrust group so
taking a squat of relational failure is
actually quite challenging whereas
taking your hip for us to relational
failure is a bit less challenging and so
it's possible that there were
differences in how close to failure the
different groups trained and that alone
might have influenced how much
hypertrophy they saw additionally while
the researchers did their absolute best
to make the participants in the squad
group squat as deep as possible in no
likelihood they didn't squat as deep as
someone more trained could have so those
are just some considerations you might
want to keep in mind when looking at the
results of this squat versus Hitler
study by Plotkin and callings not only
did the study support the idea that the
hip thrust predominantly grows the
glutes and not much else which can be a
good thing in some cases but it also
supported the idea that the glutes are
best trained at relatively shorter
muscle lengths due to neuromechanical
matching or just better internal
leverage because the glutes seem to have
the best leverage when you're close to
full hip extension and incidentally
that's just what their thrust tends to
train you through but here's what I'm
gonna say not so far last because we
have a third study that actually changed
things a little bit if you're familiar
with my welcome range of motion and the
Met analysis we conducted what you'll
know is that it seems to be the case
that training at longer muscle lengths
is better for hypertrophy than training
at shorter muscle lengths specifically
in the case of the previous study the
squat trains your glutes at pretty low
muscle lengths whereas the hip thrust
trains your roots at pretty short muscle
lengths so all else being equal you
would expect the squat to result in more
glute hypertrophy than the hip thrust
this study the one I mentioned by
Plotkin colleagues wasn't really
designed to perfectly look at the
question of muscle length and the glutes
because we're talking about two
different exercises as I mentioned the
participants may have gone closer to
failure in the group performing hip
thrusts and that alone could have a
bigger impact than muscle length would
so if we're trying to answer the
question of muscle length in the glutes
and whether or not you should train your
glutes at lower muscle lengths you know
with your hips more flexed or at
shoulder muscle lengths closer to full
hip extension like an the case of a hip
thrust this is where the next study
comes in really handy now this study
hasn't been published yet but the
abstract has been posted in a conference
in this study they compared doing a full
range of motion on something called a
multi-hip machine to doing just length
and partials or just a half of the four
range of motion that is lengthening
liquids more they found significantly
more gluteus maximus hypertrophy when
performing just the length and half of
the full range of motion thus trailing
at longer muscle lengths specifically
the full range of motion was starting at
full hip extension and going all the way
to 100 degrees of hip flexion the length
and partial condition only went from
about 50 degrees in Hip Flex so already
quite a long muscle length all the way
to 100 so train that substantially
longer muscle lengths on average than
the full range of motion condition so
more growth by training the glutes at
lower muscle weights when the hips are
more flexed but wait a minute didn't I
mention earlier that the glutes should
be more active and thus grow more closer
to full hip extension and grow less when
being trained closer to full hip flexion
indeed as I said the adductors have
better leverage with greater hip flexion
and the glutes have greater leverage
with greater hip extension however
things are rarely that simple just
because one muscle has greater internal
leverage at one point during the lift or
at a certain joint angle than another
does not inherently mean that will
result in a better hypertrophy stimulus
indeed as can be seen in this study
which was very directly designed to look
at the question of what muscle length
should I train the glutes at for
maximizing hypertrophy it seems to be
the case that even though the glutes had
worse leverage at lower muscle lengths
they still grew more when being trained
at those lower muscle lengths in the
case of the squat versus the hip thrust
study that study wasn't really designed
to look at that and it's very possible
that confounders might have resulted in
the same hypertrophy even though the
squad trained the glutes at lower muscle
lengths which is likely more productive
for hypertrophy those are the three
studies now let me give you some
takeaways on glute training and
specifically on the hip thrust first hip
thrust will absolutely grow your gluteus
maximus if you want an exercise that
will nearly isolate the gluteus maximus
muscle a hip thrust or a multi-hip
exercise both can do a really good job
there's a good chance that exercises
that will lengthen the glutes more like
say a squat or a split squat result in
more growth per set in the glutes but
these exercises that also after the knee
will also result in substantial
hypertrophy of the quads and adapters
too so what do you do if you want good
hypertrophy in the glutes and taking
advantage of the lower muscle lengths
without getting additional hypertrophy
in the quads and adapters well one thing
you can do is tweak your hip thrust or
your multi-hip Technique to make the
glutes work at lower muscle lengths on
the multi hip exercise make sure to set
up the machine to get a deep deep
stretch in your glutes the story of
every rep and consider doing lengthened
partials or just doing half the full
range of motion from the fully
lengthened position where your hip is
fully flexed to about halfway down there
are three easy tweaks to make to the hip
thrust that will make it likely more
effective for glute hypertrophy without
increasing hypertrophy of the quads or
adductors by very much
specifically I'm thinking of number one
using a single leg head thrust with a
dumbbell on your lap as a means to get a
bit deeper when you're using a barbell
the lift will stop quite a bit earlier
because of the plates touching the
ground before you get a deep stretch in
your glutes number two generally I would
avoid using bands in the hip thrust
these add tension to the top position
which is likely not as hypertrophic for
the glutes and remove tension from the
bottom position which is likely good for
glute growth number three if you can try
elevating the bench and or the platform
that you're putting your feet on and
some hip thrust specialist Dentures will
do this by Design to get a deeper range
of motion and a deeper stretch on the
glutes at the bottom of the hip thrust
the final takeaway for this video is
that if we want to train lower muscle
lengths for the glutes which seems
lightly based on all this data the hip
thrust can still work pretty well it
does still lengthen your glutes a good
amount however the glute Bridge likely
doesn't it trains your glutes at very
short muscle lengths so while we can
absolutely make some tweaks to the hip
thrust to make a training boots are
pretty long muscle lengths and still
isolate your glutes very well and
produce a good amount of growth per set
the glute bridge is likely just training
your glutes at too short of a muscle
length to really be ideal for
hypertrophy anyways that's the video if
you like the video please comment like
subscribe and I'll see you guys in that
next one peace