what the is an intensity technique
well it's a term that bodybuilding
Community has adopted to refer to
anything that isn't a traditional set
composed of a cluster of consecutive
uninterrupted repetitions followed by a
traditional rest interval there's a lot
of intensity techniques around rest paw
cluster sets myor reps giant sets super
sets and even lengthened partials have
begun to be referred to as intensity
techniques let's put aside the fact that
lengthened partials should not be
considered an intensity technique but
rather the best range of motion for your
muscle based on the evidence we have the
truth about intensity techniques is
number one that they haven't been
studied very much number two when they
have been studied they're rarely more
effective than just traditional straight
sets and number three most importantly
they're usually just a term that people
throw around specifically bodybuilders
to sound a little bit more educated
about lifting here are some good
examples I've seen some stuff recently
with that lengthened partial which
people are pedaling now don't fall for
the hype just because something is
referred to as an intensity technique
does not make it better than traditional
training