yeah it was 236 and I fluctuate anywhere
now between 192 and 196 depending on the
day if you go down in body fat by let's
call it 40 or 50 PBS of fat tissue and
you increase your muscle mass by
anywhere between 0 and 10 lb we would
have to be unbelievably surprised if
every single Health marker you had
didn't radically transform itself into a
better one nothing of this requires any
weird fake sciency protocols with air
getting into into your lungs that you
didn't need there or red light being
shot into your dick or any of that
 these numbers that Gary is
reading are impressive but not remotely
surprising because if anyone loses 40 or
50 lbs of fat You' got numbers coming
your way guaranteed that look like that
I don't know why any of this is a
mystery or why we need to suppose the
Superhuman protocol is responsible for
any of this