[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
when you everyone it is Friday August
the 80s and I'm back with a quick blog
life update as you may notice from the
scenery around me I'm in a new spot
Stephanie and I actually just completed
a move from Tampa Florida to
Jacksonville Florida
so this is where Stephanie lives as many
of you guys know I have a spot in Canada
but I come into the furnace here about
as I hand which is usually about a month
at a time but usually I'll get stamped
at the border for six months each visit
so they're spending a good bit of time
here but we are planning to spend a lot
of this fall in winter in Canada so we
have a new home here that we're really
excited about I'll give you guys a full
tour of this a little bit later but
first I want it to weigh in this morning
not having given an update on that in
forever because I haven't been blogging
quite as much focusing on a sign explain
content so we're gonna do a quick weigh
in right here show my body composition
and then we will get on this walk here's
where we are one hundred and sixty five
point four pounds seventeen point eight
percent body fat so I'm actually pretty
happy with that I am making it a goal
now especially kind of like summer is
over and everything to start a lien bulk
so I'm going to try to drive my body
weight from 165 up to 170 and I will do
that through intuitive eating so I don't
weigh in every day I probably weigh in
about once a week just to see sort of
where I am and I've been more or less
maintained after Egypt I felt like my
body weight may not have spiked up a lot
but my training was really sort of
inconsistent over there and my diet
wasn't the greatest and since then I
feel like I've been sort of recounting
in a way where I've picked out my
training intensity
and cleaned up my diet and so to be at
around whatever was 17% it's actually
pretty low on that scale and I know you
guys have seen a scale on other channels
but I do really like that one because it
is really consistent so it measures your
body weight body fat bone mass and body
water and you can program up to 8 users
on it so Stephanie and I both use that
same scale and that matters because for
the body fat percentage calculation it
takes into account your height and some
other stats so it has to be specific to
you so yeah if you guys are looking into
getting a new scale this is the scale
actually recommend my clients to get
especially when their current scales
start misbehaving the most frustrating
thing in the world is if you're on a cut
or especially if you're in contest prep
and your waist suddenly spikes up 8 or
10 pounds that shouldn't happen you can
tune in to diet and that's usually an
indication to me that the scale is being
unreliable if you like move it on the
floor it'll still give the same
consistent reading which is pretty rare
in scale so this is a really reliable
one and you can get 60% on the body
analyzer scale by clicking the link in
the description to go check that out and
we're going to get on with the blog and
crazy thing about being here in
Jacksonville I've noticed there's a lot
of nature around here so like I just
looked outside the window so we do have
a little tiny pool back here so humans
so yeah anyway this is like lizard land
in here still not used to that well
they're still freaking out a little bit
being Canadian
yes Stephanie and I are going to go for
breakfast this morning to a place called
first watch because it's just like a
short walk down the road that way while
I wait for her to get ready do a couple
quick edit on my kinetic science explain
video so I actually haven't started the
actual editing process of this one yet
but I have everything filmed with my mom
that's work out with my mom I do get
asked a lot of questions about how I
edit these from that research I'll
condense it down write a script which is
what I read out and then I read it out
cut out all of my like arms and ahhs and
some breaths and so on to make it sound
really cohesive and then this is
basically the point I'll get to from
there so right now I'm here in Final Cut
but I only use Final Cut and I do all of
my thing on my macbook pro so this here
is my voiceover and I've trimmed that up
I've got a couple songs that I'll put
over that and I'll time those a little
bit better what I have to do now is what
I consider to be the most like
challenging aspect of it is trying to
figure out how I'm going to intro it
because I try to capture people's
attention from the very beginning and so
I want something that's going to be a
little bit more intricate with the
editing at the beginning to draw people
in and keep them engaged just kind of
have the brainstorm and think about what
I'm going to do with the font and the
titling and bring that together but that
process I would say the first minute of
editing usually takes me like four or
five hours usually that first thing that
usually include the mataji which is a
really difficult edit sometimes to do
from there the rest of the edit and
usually lately only take me like 20 to
30 hours once on that fifth step but
that's because I've gotten a lot more
efficient with my editing it's usually
like two straight days of like 10 hour
blocks of editing is how I do these
times people ask me if I edit them
myself and I do and I probably always
will I may outsource that for like a
video or two but I really enjoy the
creative process of editing and just
having full creative control of the
content I have been in touch with a
graphic designer who's done some work
for the NFL he's done work for American
Express and we're probably going to
collaborate on a project so if you do
see a science explain that's just like
go to this world beyond my current
capabilities I'll make sure to give
attribution to him I always do that in
the description box anyway
so as I've had like an illustrator or a
research assistant or
someone who filmed it for me or whatever
is usually Stephanie and I who do the
filming but occasionally I'll get a
videographer to do it it's always
credited in the description box so if
you guys ever have questions about
science explain videos or vlogs or
anything
always read through the description box
it's usually packed with information
check those out if you ever have any
questions usually the answers in there
including my height by the way I also
include that in the description box so
if you're curious check it out down
there we also have massages plan for
today feel like I really need it moving
in here was not easy you can see some of
the carnage from the move stuff he did
such a good job cleaning the place up
but how many I'm gonna give you guys
before after all so the first thing we
got delivered to our place were two
cartons of energy drink I'm not just not
sponsors not a Nadder anything like that
I just really like them Stephanie is
indifferent about white monster versus
up she likes both of them
I like up way better it is by far my
favorite industry you actually do up but
kind of dangerous because it's so
refreshing that I want one usually late
at night I'm so sensitive caffeine so if
I have really any caffeine after like 3
p.m. then I will be up all night
pardon chill here wait until girls ready
you ready I'm going to show you so I'm
blogging with this is Steph camera
actually so this is the Sony rx100 mark
3 I love this camera for vlogging it's
so late I can just like throw it around
I bought as some of you guys probably
know this sony alpha 6500 which I also
really I do like this camera but I am
NOT the most informed person ever with
camera cameras so Stephanie and I are
actually taking a course right now on
photography and I'm finding it to be
really informative but I still am not
knowledgeable enough to be able to use
this to its full ability and what is
probably most annoying this flip screen
only goes up to there so you can't do
selfie mode so I can never see if I'm in
focus or out of focus and I've had to
redo so many shots so I think I'm going
to save this for not vlogging and use
this for
my client explained videos for taking
photos that sort of thing maybe get
another one of these sort on keep
bumming stuff if I want to vlog and use
this one for vlogging so if I was asking
if just one piece of fitness advice it
would be to pick the right hair oh no I
know what I'm going to do I'm going to
have raw clips of me and my mom training
so it's going to be like she'll be like
encouraging me told my mom to do a shot
where she was like let's go Jess look
it's God is encouraging me and I can
throw that at the beginning so it'll be
like we're kind of pushing each other
and then I'll kind of have a transition
into the voice-over where they'll be
like oh I'll ask again just one piece of
fitness advice to pick the right parents
and then when I say take the right
parents
I'll have it come up like I'll probably
have it like like kind of freeze frame
and then have something come up and
it'll be like genetics science explained
and then from there it'll just be mostly
footage with the studies coming in as I
talk about them all my edits are really
just using keyframes so you say that all
your edits are like just keyframes of
like that so it's not that simple you do
like yeah crazy keyframing ever that's
like you're going to you that perfect
mm-hmm it's not just keyframe and I use
um I use like a lot of masking and a lot
of keys as well cuz I really really read
that it is not preset you he does
everything like point by point it's
crazy
[Music]
that's first so ah so good so check this
out I don't know if the screen is fogged
up probably like impossible it's so
humid here feel like it's more humid in
Jacksonville than in Tampa but that's
okay I'll just sweat it on my water wait
we have like a mailbox and a garage and
a tree we have a side yard and then
there's a lake this is a correct
terminology like right here you're the
alligators in it probably maybe that I
feel like I should say because people
are going to comment on this and I just
realized it it's so normal for me to see
like 17 18 percent body fat on that
scale but it's probably not the most
accurate in terms of nailing down one
precise measurement in my experience it
does scale it slightly higher but that's
because it bases the estimate for your
whole body based
off of analysis of your lower body and I
tend to store more body fat on my lower
body it is very consistent over time so
it is very good for tracking changes
because every method is is unreliable
that we currently have I don't know if
you already said this but if you're
interested on like us video of like all
the different types of measurements
you've done a video on it yeah that's
true I will link it in the description
and show like your measurements from
other methods you're talking about the
other types of methods that are out
there and yeah accurate they are yes you
did a video on that too didn't idea yeah
so I'll put both of them down there so
if you're a girl Watchers very I lost
mine yeah and asked me for an estimate
of their body fat percentage and this is
completely as just not possible to do
and nor does it really matter because
ten percent on one person will look
totally different than ten percent on
another person and I've known guys who
are slightly older so say like in their
40s or maybe even early 50s who look
absolutely shredded bone-dry ready to
compete and they're still scoring like
13 14 percent body fat which may or may
not be accurate but not all body fat is
stored subcutaneously meaning that if
you have say more fat around your organs
you may look very shredded but still
rank higher on a body fat percentage
measurement so it's completely
impossible to know I don't think that
there's a certain thing that ten percent
looks like and Stephanie knows this
because you you helped out with a study
where they had to measure a bunch of
different people and she said that some
guys would come in and they might be ten
percent but they have no muscle
yeah they look staying with music and
then there would be others that were
more muscular
they looked lean still but they'd be
like twenty five percent body red you
don't really care about exactly what the
number is what matters is how it relates
to previous measurements for me because
that
17.8 to me specifies a specific look to
me that might look completely different
to someone else and trying to say I want
to I want to get below ten percent I
think is kind of a trivial goal because
that might look really really shredded
or you may not even look
all that lien depending on your
muscularity in order to track your
progress I think if you're going to
track it body weight is good changes in
body fat is good if you have access to
the technology to do it and then
tracking your progress in ghent in the
gym I think especially for beginners is
a good idea to sort of gauge how your
muscle is changing over time I hope you
guys enjoyed the rant and I'll see you
in for swatch one kind of like speed
makes a lot we got the carotene
two eggs potatoes ham because they
didn't have turkey bacon I usually don't
use ham though two slices a four-week
toast or whole grain toast this is like
our dessert oh thank when I was a
mushroom and
today
no quick
I really get the gravity of the fact
that we're completely dressed so on the
waiter or for breakfast we got caught in
a flap Rainier is active oh all right
you can see how wet this is so soaking
wet look at that when it rains in
Florida it really is that how the
expression boat commands aboard and go
Paris yes nice I might actually go out
in it just with my shirt off a little
bit
well
or our docks on Saudi wedlocke back
firecrackers of the reindeer is warm the
Thunder here is like nothing I've ever
heard personally in Canada like we get
under but not only bad thunderous I'll
get naked Indian you're trying to make
this for that viral weirdo fairy sagas
ready oh yes we have for 12:45 we got
cotton re oh no crowd Albany I am in
agony
okay we're doing couples and slush hey
it's joined oh thank you oh they are hey
I'm going to flick off the camera just
for the sake of privacy so when I come
back I should be really relaxed
we have sleep hopefully there's a happy
iein that's true
I was felt like a long time it's like we
got 60 minutes of just like full body
and then 30 minutes at this foot right
yep I wasn't anticipating very much
because it's kind of like home wall like
Asian place but it was like really
relaxing for me in my experience the
best massages I've ever had were like
the least corporate yeah I met her like
people straight out of it yeah very
straight I was expecting just kind of
like a rubdown sort of thing but like
just like little Asian ladies like she
starts like digging our elbows in
checking together
we're actually reusing this because it
keeps liquid really cold so it's really
nice to reuse it we're gonna make his
pre-workout with it I'm just going to
use high volume because this one does
not have caffeine and you already had
enough caffeine okay citrus so and you
two scoops of high volume and then I'm
making you some salmon and you could
Saito french fries for your for your
pre-workout meal
oh that looks good sweet potato fries
and Sam you can see it we're watching
that documentary what's the health I
don't know if you guys have heard of it
or seen it but it's kind of a big thing
I think it's good contour C and I just
won't share my opinion tip for now but
if you guys have seen it you can feel
free to let me know what you thought of
it I'm considering doing like a review
of it after I watch it and I might pick
up some of the papers that they
reference in it and maybe some other
papers to do with the surrounding topic
so I might do that
I've been tentative to touch too much
related to diet just because it is so
heated and so polarized that I'm not
sure if I want to attract certain
dogmatists to my channel but as you guys
know I like to approach things with an
unbiased eye so I'm considering doing a
video on this but I obviously have to
watch it first so that'll probably be a
little bit down the line so here's a
pre-workout meal in its final form
that's some baked sweet potato fries
some this like lemon what kind of name
is this lemon dill lemon pepper salmon
and a QE and I have a glass of milk
whether I'm gonna have a glass of cancer
just kidding mmm that is really good
yeah we're heading to the gym now and
like my 50 minutes when I give you guys
a really really quick tour of the new
place and come in there's the shoes
there's Stephanie this is like the main
living area as a couch day bed thing TV
here and then oh here here you have pool
deck so there's a little little pool
here
barbecue table plant okay so that's that
area so that's the kitchen area you can
see her workplace you come over here
let's show them down this alley is this
to the side yard over here actually no
yes
like that either as well so right here
yeah there we go
big tree and then that's where the lake
is over there charlie is the second
bathroom what is this this is that is it
laughter room in here we haven't
finished that ignore that potentially
going to be an awesome oh yeah I didn't
hit this yet we've only been here like a
day and a half and a lot of work to make
a living room look like it did so next
shot is drink you guys have seen this is
a race yeah
so the garage in here in my garage he by
the way like this is the best house ever
for doing stock slide and then in here
is our bedroom
disconnect out to the pool area TV and
then here's the other bathroom walk-in
closet
and then the other bathroom is here
alright so that's a quick house tour
that's all you get and I'm gonna lie
here for like 15 minutes maybe finish
washing a bit of the documentary and
then we're going to head to the gym so
like I miss you guys in June
[Music]
alright let's go around everyone so we
just got back from the back workout just
when I think you guys quickly through
what it was that we did I just want to
offer you guys a few of the shoes that I
use really like little tidbits that
might help make your workout a little
bit more effective so we kicked off this
workout with a rope pull over and lately
I've been taking off my workouts that's
one of two different types of
reactivation techniques so the first one
is a lab pull in where you try to
activate the last through shoulder
adduction so bring your elbow closer to
your midline and then the other one is
the rope pull and tear your training to
last through shoulder extension I'm
still driving your elbow down I like you
to be passed kneeling so I'll put one
knee on the ground and I'll have the
other knee or up you know pull the rope
down over my knee
and a finally this just gives me a
little bit extra range of motion one
thing that I get a lot from people who
will try this exercise is that they feel
their triceps tuning a big pump or
feeling a little bit overworked and
that's really common and that's kind of
normal because the long head of your
triceps the one in here does actually
function or does help with shoulder
extension but you do want to reduce it
to a degree because you're trying to try
to collapse
not just the triceps so you want to
focus on not extending that elbow so you
don't want to treat a cord like a press
down pullover hybrid you want to keep
your elbow locked into position I like
to have a slight bend in my elbow and
then just think about driving through
your elbow so rather than visualizing
sort of like the locus of control of the
movement in your hand pulling the rope
down just think about driving your elbow
down slightly back and the idea here is
not to go heavy or anything like that
and in fact one thing I'd like to do is
sort of move the rope to one side at a
time
and feel each lap to my left flatten my
right last contract individually and you
wouldn't be able to do that if you were
going very heavily but we're not loading
it heavily the only main idea really
here is to get a pump in the left get
the muscle tiring get the blood flowing
sort of get the workout started off in
the right foot and of course you can do
these standing that's just my preference
to do them half kneeling at least bubbly
so our first main vertical pull of the
workout was the lat pulldown and if
you've seen my back science explained
video which was done almost a year ago
to this date then you would know like
the most optimized way to do this
according to the EMG literature but very
quickly you want to take a 1.5 times
vehicle meal business grip so basically
not so why you're out on the car work
usually but also not just shoulder it's
a slightly outside of shoulder width you
want to pull the bar down in front
rather than behind and you want to use a
double overhand grip at least according
to the EMG data however you know
different people will have slightly
different preferences and that you want
to play around with a variety of
different grips and figure out what
works best for you this is what I found
worked best for me and also you want to
load these somewhat heavily I tend to
work in the 10 to 12 rep range but I do
use a bit of momentum on the concentric
always controlled the eccentric you want
to use a slight lean back as well that's
been shown to increase the energy
education or the research and then after
that we switch to a close grip lat
pulldown so this is going to train the
lap again to shoulder extension whereas
the wide grip lat pulldown is going to
train and work for shoulder adduction
just a slightly different tweak on same
basic movement pattern and again here
you want to think about driving your
Delta your elbows down and you don't
want to turn this into a row so we are
still trying to try to the lab here
you're planning your elbow down as your
lap shortens and with a closed grip
variation in particular I wouldn't be
afraid to go a little bit heavier
especially if you're one of my female
subscribers I find this with male 2 but
females in particular are often very
technique-driven in their movement
patterns and so if you're like ultra
focus on staying very erect and upright
then I feel like you can leave a little
bit of overload on the table so to speak
and so I'd rather see my athletes
working a little bit harder and if you
look at Stephanie doing the movement
here she's loading this quite heavily
and using a little bit of momentum to
squeeze out those extra few reps and I
think that having a client entity of
effort with your battery ensure that
you're training in general is a good way
to sort of optimize your hypertrophic
gains from it but yeah don't go to the
point that you're just completely
bastardizing your movement and on this
point I do like to use grips or straps
too so that my grip isn't
a limiting factor in the movement and if
you've seen my forum science explained
video then you know that I like to
isolate the forums and train the grip
separately so when I'm training forums
in training forums when I'm training
back I'm training back and so I would
never want my grip strength to be a
limiting factor in terms of overloading
my back muscles if your grip is a
limiting factor then you should need to
use straps if you're a power lifter it
may be a little bit different because
you need your grip to sort of work in
synchronicity with the rest of your
muscles especially in the deadlift
if you may not want to rely on straps
too much but from a purely physique
standpoint I think that using straps or
grips can be very helpful and I do find
that I'm able to get a better mind
muscle connection with my lap I'm able
to just focus on pulling the weight and
driving with my elbows more when I don't
have to worry about gripping the bars
okay so after that we move on to our
main horizontal pole of the day which is
a row and I've personally been
alternating between a seated cable row
and t-bar row and I use the chest
supported variation of that one I find
that with a freeway row it does put a
little bit of extra strain on my lower
back and I don't want to sound like a
broken record but that is something I've
had to learn to work around and if
ultimately taught me that when it comes
to hypertrophy there really are no
mandatory movements so you want to find
a movement pattern that you can perform
safely and that works well with your
body in its current form here in doing
this exercise as a trap focused movement
so you really want to think about
pulling your shoulder blades together
and driving your elbows back with this
if you wanted to make it my lat focused
you think about driving your elbows down
and you can see stephanie doing the
scenic table variation here but I like
to use the t-bar row in this case you
know it works somewhere in the ich10r F
range now in the final set I like to do
a drop set really feel the squeeze at
the top of each rep and I do let's use
the chess supported versions here not
only because it provides a little bit of
lower back relief but also because it
prevents cheating heavy barbell row for
example oftentimes you can cheat to the
point that I think you actually lose OH
a little bit of overload on tracks and
end up sort of ducking yourself under
the base which may not be the most
effective way to row you might be okay
so after that we moved on to the ropes
face pool and I like to do this movement
actually lying down and the reason for
that is that it also blocks means so
that I can go heavier on when I'm
standing I have to rely on my core
stability in a way that I don't when I'm
bit down with my feet put up against the
upright and so I can just go heavier and
ultimately more overload on the traps
should lead to more growth over time so
you want to load this movement heavily
and the way that I think about this
movement is I treated more so as just a
high row whereas the way Stephanie does
it isn't so much to target the traps but
we also determine the rear delt in the
external rotators as you can see two
slightly different tweaks on the same
basic movement and they'll target
slightly different muscles but because I
want to grow my traps in particular the
mid trap they've been doing them line
down and with heavy weight and with a
strong emphasis for scapular retraction
as opposed to external rotation is a
good way to do that but I think that
both variations on this basic movement
can't have their place in anyone's
training program except for people who
don't want to go to their traps if you
really don't want to go your traps then
maybe don't do that heavy luring
variation and then finally we finished
off with a smith machine shrug super
setted with full range of motion lateral
raises so if you've seen my trap and
next explained video then you know that
taking a slightly wider grip is likely a
way to sort of optimize upper trap
recruitment I took a slightly wider grip
on the Smith machine shrub and I'm using
the Smith machine here again to just
provide a little bit of support from my
lower back so I don't have to load it
quite as heavily with the freeway
variation and then with a full range of
motion lateral raise you really want to
think about lifting the weight so if
you're trying to negate trap involvement
you want to think about pushing out with
the back of your hands and that's going
to involve more of the laterals out
wherever you're trying to target upper
traps you really want to think about
listing the weight up and then as you
get above 90 degrees you want to think
about lifting the weight up with your
traps so it almost turns into an
overhead shrug type of movement and with
this you want to be careful you do feel
any kind of shoulder impingement then
you shouldn't do it if there's any if it
even feels uncomfortable don't do it not
a mandatory movement but it is one that
I like in my own training never had any
issues with it in terms of impingement
or anything like that so I do do it but
I keep it very light and I focus on
really squeezing at the top rather than
something like just driving my hands
that makes any sense and that is
actually going to conclude this video so
I really hope that you liked it what was
I gonna plug here oh no what else is
that how can you say something if you're
interested in our personal level or of
just personal life following on
Instagram and your stories yes we got
the mental object there yes exactly so
what I was gonna say was I want to keep
this channel primarily information based
so that's why I've been spending so much
time on my science explain videos and
producing those I will be blogging a
little bit but not quite as much as I'll
be doing the in quantitive content so
you should hit me up on Instagram my
Instagram story that's where I'll be
showing a lot of that more blog style
content leave a comment below
actually let me know your favorite lat
training Q for getting your laps to turn
on and like a pulldown or a row or
something like that comment below and
let me know I'd love to hear them
because I'm always looking to improve my
own training style in optimize as much
as I can special edition guys thanks so
much for watching like if you liked it
subscribe to the channel if you haven't
already and I will see you guys in a
couple days I'll be back with a genetics
not explained video so stay tuned for
that but