dude what are you doing you know body
weight training sucks for building
muscle you think I built this Mass
through bodyweight training huh believe
me I know you didn't build that mass
through body weight training hey what's
that supposed to mean
[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
effective is calisthenics that's body
weight training for muscle hypertrophy
can someone theoretically maximize
hypertrophy using nothing more than
their body weight let's have a look at
what the scientific literature suggests
[Music]
it's widely believed that 6 to 12 rep
range is superior for building muscle
and given body weight training is
commonly done with higher reps this may
be used as evidence bodyweight training
is sub-optimal for muscle hypertrophy
yet this science doesn't support this a
multitude of paper suggests per set reps
between 6 and 35 are comparably
effective for building muscle provided
those reps are performed to or close to
failure a strong hypothesis as to why
lower and higher reps can be similar for
hypertrophy is that they ultimately
produce similar mechanical tension the
primary hypertrophy stimuli mechanical
tension is essentially the force
experienced by muscle fibers they have
mechanical senses that can detect the
force and convert it into a signaling
Cascade that produces hypertrophy
to optimize overall mechanical tension
we'd want to recruit as many muscle
fibers as possible and have the
individual fibers produce decent tension
for a sufficient duration lower reps
with heavier loads will instantly
involve higher mechanical tension and it
only increases as you near failure
higher reps initially involve low
mechanical tension but as you continue
repping out a nearing failure more
muscle fibers are recruited and many
fibers may increase their Force
contribution so overall mechanical
tension ends up being similar between
lower and higher reps
it's also worth noting mechanical
tension is mechanical tension your body
has no sensors to detect whether free
weights machines or body weight is used
to generate fiber tension it's not like
just because you're using a body weight
exercise your fibers refuse to grow
it's also worth noting other
hypothesized stimuli like metabolic
stress or micro tears simply do not have
compelling evidence they are powerful
drivers of hypertrophy we have two
videos deciphering the science on this
thus so long as your training bodywear
exercises to or close to failure in the
6 to 35 rep range hypertrophy will
effectively be stimulated we have
further data supporting this a 2017
Japanese paper compared High rep bench
press training to higher rep push-up
training and chest and triceps growth
ended up being similar between both
a 2018 USA paper compared Progressive
push-up training with harder variations
with lower reps to lower rep bench press
training and both groups saw chest
growth the percentage is actually
favored push-up training but the
difference was not statistically
significant so the difference could just
be due to chance so body weight
exercises can be effective for
hypertrophy but does this mean in the
long term body weight training as a
whole is effective for hypertrophy there
are some potential pitfalls of body
weight training long term
[Music]
the most straightforward way to
Progressive overload bodyweight
movements is to perform more repetitions
and so long as you stay within the 6-35
rep range this is perfectly fine for
hypertrophy as shown in a previous video
the current data indicates progressing
through increasing reps is no less
effective for muscle growth than
increasing load now it is also
technically possible to increase load
with bodyweight exercises through using
harder variations that have you work
against the greater percentage of your
body weight this can be done through
manipulating body position or
progressing to single limbed variations
the current Research indicates a wide
range of rep tempos are comparable for
inducing muscle growth so attempting to
slow down your repetitions or even add
pauses can likely also be effective ways
to Progressive overload bodyweight
movements finally although strictly not
body weight using added weight is also
an option weighted calisthenics can
absolutely be great for long-term
progression this 2019 Norway study found
that when load equating weighted
push-ups and bench presses recruitment
of the chest triceps and shoulders were
similar between them so summarizing this
section it is certainly possible to
overload bodywear exercises well in the
long term through an array of different
methods so I don't believe this is a
pitfall of calisthenics
foreign
literature indicates muscles do not grow
evenly across their regions in response
to training and exercise the implication
is training with a few biomechanically
different exercises per muscle will
likely better optimize its overall
regional growth thus some may feel
calisthenics may be limited in this area
as they feel there's not much exercise
variety available yet this is not truly
the case with the upper body at least
you likely want to train the biceps at
different shoulder angles but this can
be done with body weight variations
training the triceps at different
shoulder angles is probably a good idea
too and this again can be done with body
weight variations
training the chest at different incline
angles can likely be useful and this can
be done with body weight
finally the back can also be trained
with biomechanically different body
weight movements so summarizing this
section there are a variety of bodywear
exercises that can collectively optimize
regional growth of many muscles it's not
necessarily a pitfall
[Music]
calisthenics may have some very real
pitfalls around lower body training
there's evidence hamstring activation
patterns differ between hip extension
and leg curl-based exercises so to
optimize overall hamstring development
you'd want both movements a Lego
bodyweight variation exists with a
Nordic curl and this is an excellent
exercise frequently used in the athletic
world but there's no proper body weight
hip extension exercise that will really
recruit the hamstrings with the other
main lower body muscles the quads glutes
and calves exercise selection isn't
really a problem you have squatting
variations that will hit the quads and
glutes
reverse Nordic curls that can hit the
quads further hip thrust variations that
can hit the glutes further and standing
and seated calf raises for the calves
the problem however is many of these are
difficult to overload in the long term
relative novices can perform way more
than 35 reps on calf raise and hip
thrust variations with squatting
variations progressing to pistol squats
can take a while but once you're able to
rep out on pistol squats further
long-term overloading with body weight
alone is difficult so I think
Progressive overload with some lower
body exercises is a real Pitfall due to
this I think it's reasonable to
speculate a person cannot Max their
lower body hypertrophy with calisthenic
solely this shouldn't be mistaken in
saying no lower body hypertrophy occurs
with calisthenics this is of course
false I should also note that you can
still train with more than 35
repetitions it can still elicit muscle
growth albeit just perhaps not as
effective as staying within that 6 to 35
range
[Music]
body weight exercises can stimulate
hypertrophy just as effectively as free
weights or machines provided you're
getting too or near to failure in the 6
to 35 rep range overloading body weight
exercises in the long run needs a little
creativity increasing rep numbers using
harder variations or manipulating
reptempo are all viable strategies there
exists in a rate of different body
weight exercise variations that can
collectively contribute to producing
great Regional development of your
muscles finally I think it's likely
bodyweight training can be extremely
effective in the long term for upper
body hypertrophy but it most likely
won't be extremely effective for lower
body hypertrophy some regions of the
lower body may not be trained with body
weight variations and some lower body
weight exercises are going to be
virtually impossible to successfully
overload in the 6-35 rep range long term
limiting their effectiveness if you've
made it here I have a free ebook you
might like The Ultimate Guide to bench
pressing for strength and hypertrophy
with more than 100 scientific references
from technique to training variables to
comparisons and other fascinating
science we cover it all grab it through
the link in the description or comments
[Music]