in their training for sport all athletes
must run
this is a myth i'm doctor mike zartel
for renaissance periodization fitness
myths series video number 14 all
athletes must run
for training let's open up this can of
worms athletes run
is literally an under armour ad campaign
slogan okay they have this commercial is
very well done where like they had their
people had their under armour like
outfits on and they like ran like
someone running in like farms and cities
and tracks and it was all different
kinds of athletes and it's like athletes
run like you're an athlete you run buy
our stuff under armour is great stuff by
the way definitely by the ship
uh
tons of athletes seem to want to run
even when it doesn't make any goddamn
sense swimmers you see them running
wrestlers love to run
jiu jitsu players a lot of running in
jiu jitsu
basketball players football players and
when we say running i especially mean in
this context distance running jogging
it's like something people do to get in
shape it seems that's kind of the claim
here
and the claim goes more than that it's
not just what people do to get in shape
the claim is that it's what you should
do to get in shape like if you're an
athlete you run you go for a jog that's
what you do that's how you train
like people have this idea about like
bodybuilders close your eyes what's a
bodybuilder like what's their training
like they lift weights in a dingy gym
and weird mirrors true right and that's
the stereotype and it happens to be
mostly true when people think athlete
how do athletes train a lot of people
close their eyes and think like a person
jogging or throwing a ball around and
jogging and jogging seems to come back
in there this idea that athletes run and
all athletes should run and do run is so
pervasive that even phil heath ran in
the mountains in that interesting video
shoot for the generation iron movie
which was like where the fuck dill heath
running with them calves and those legs
nowhere i guarantee that shit took like
fucking 15 takes because he probably
can't run more than you know 100 meters
without everything cramping up maybe
maybe he's in unreal shape he used to be
a basketball player he's probably in
pretty good shape but you know is
running is jogging how phil heath
loses body fat i'm not inclined to
believe that that's the case right so
interesting stuff going on there
so reasons why all athletes should run
is probably wrong
first
running is literally not a part of a ton
of sports and sport specificity matters
a ton you train for the sport that you
do you wouldn't give a swimmer a tennis
racket so why the fuck are you giving
him running shoes there may be some good
reasons in some cases but in most cases
it's stupid
boxing
boxers love to run this is probably
mostly not a good practice we'll talk
about why in a bit mixed martial artists
grapplers gymnasts sometimes do jogging
what like outside of the tiny little
short sprint they do for a few of their
events gymnasts don't need to be running
at all why are they doing it it's just
not a part of their sport
next
sport specific conditioning so clearly
running is designed to elevate
conditioning levels and that it does
very well but sport specific
conditioning does that better
conditioning elevation for the sport and
it also improves fitness and skills
so
small sided soccer games for example
instead of having soccer players jog
around the field accomplish a crapload
of physical conditioning so they check
that box just as good as running does
better actually
but small sided games also require you
to you know what that thing they do when
they play soccer oh yeah actually play
soccer move the ball around with your
feet and get better at the skill of
playing soccer many times basketball
players tennis players soccer players
jog
they're getting their physical
conditioning decent but if they do sport
specific drills and techniques in
practice
actually putting their hands on a racket
a ball
with their hands or with their feet if
they're basketball or soccer they
actually accomplish all that and more on
the physical side plus the technical
side you get better at playing the sport
it's a win-win that just jogging and
running doesn't give you another
downside is that running specific
fatigue can hit super hard especially if
you're not used to it especially if
you're not that body type if you're
heavier and you're a football player
jogging can fuck you up and just
annihilate you fatigue-wise and the
question is for what well it's a
conditioning benefit that you could have
gotten just doing football drills at a
more elevated rate like tackling drills
or positioning drills or short sprint
drills or movement drills it pushes your
heart rate just as high or muscles get
filled with lactic acid etc but it also
teaches you football and it is a certain
level of fatigue jogging generates a
crapload of fatigue for those people
without all those benefits so it's not a
very good thing now there are some
grains of truth
first
running can be a pretty good systemic
conditioning builder which means it just
builds cardiovascular conditioning kind
of all around not in the local muscles
that are not in the legs but you know
heart lungs it changes blood dynamics
and all that stuff which is really
really good even for sports that don't
run it can be a benefit so if you're
stuck in a place you're a swimmer and
you're stuck on only dry land and
there's no swimming pools but you have
to stay in shape yeah running is your
second best option at that point if
there's nothing else around for sure
second benefit to running potentially
can be a good break from monotony for
example dry land training for swimmers
especially endurance swimmers involves
lots of jogging
why because you can only swim so long
until your shoulders fucking just fall
off of you and any good swimmer will
tell you
you can swim well it's really something
that's quite sustainable but at some
point dry land training is a good break
from the monotony lets your joints heal
up and if you're running you're taking
vertical forces as a swimmer which you
basically never encounter swimming and
it's forces in the knees the ankles
knees hips and spine and you get almost
no force transduction through the
shoulders and not the kind of forces
that are transduced through the hips and
knees when you're swimming so you take
all the sort of potentially harmful with
accumulated fatigue force vectors you
change them completely away from what
they usually fuck up which is like your
shoulders when you're swimming and
direct them to your hips and knees and
you think oh shit if i keep going and
running like a swimmer
then i will eventually fuck up my hips
yeah but if they do that for several
weeks and they're like i'm getting kind
of bored of this running thing my hips
feel kind of weird but then they do one
of these and they're like my shoulders
feel great i'm ready for swimming again
so as a change for monotony running can
be in some context a decent variation no
problem
next and i sort of alluded to this
earlier running is maybe one of the
lowest forms of setup physical or
training activity that you can do
what do you need to swim what we get at
least a source of water that is
decently not waved and long enough and
deep enough and you won't die going in
there or something uh you know what
about if you want to train with weights
you need a fucking weight room if you
want to train for football specific
stuff you need a football field et
cetera et cetera what do you need for
running you need shoes
and you don't even need the outdoors if
it's sufficiently large indoor space you
can do some running and all pretty much
everywhere in the world has an outdoor
space uh you know maybe antarctica is an
exception you can't go out in the winter
but you can run almost anywhere so if
you're in a place where you're traveling
or limited on equipment or you're just
living in a country or a place that just
doesn't have a lot of equipment for you
and you want to get in shape or stay in
shape or something yeah running and
different forms of running are real good
start and they're absolutely totally
valid it's just that when we do have the
resources running gets pushed way into
the back of the line as far as good
choices specifically for athletes whose
number one part of the sport is not
running or jogging which is to say
probably most athletes
so what are the best practices here
taking this all together
in most cases if you want to increase
your sport fitness and ability you
choose sport specific drills and sport
specific cardiovascular exercises
that way your technique improves while
you're pushing the pace so if you're
getting in shape for tennis you can have
a coach shoot balls this way balls that
way balls this way balls that way you
run around and hit the balls they're
running back and forth and up and down
the court is just destroying you
physically which is great it's what you
want but also you get to practice all
your tennis swings it's the best of both
worlds versus if you just jog around the
tennis court like yeah you get some of
that physical stuff not even all of it
because you don't get the change of
direction or acceleration deceleration
stuff but you don't get any of the
tennis benefits of knowing how to
fucking swing a racket you know the best
marathon around the world you hand them
a racket they're like the fuck is this
they're not good at tennis you need to
practice the sport that you're playing
or at least components of it and that's
the best way to train for sport
if you want to use running you should
use it when it's the best option taking
all of the other options and trade-offs
into account not just by default because
athletes run and this is a thing that
goes all the way through every sport
it's dying in sport culture but fucking
too slowly in brazilian jiu jitsu which
is what i do actually coincidentally i
just got done with practice i'm wearing
my rash guard oh brown belt rash guard
never hurt any bun thanks moya brand
companies make a fine rash guard
in jiu jitsu this is getting less and
less and less to be a thing but tons of
schools will start the jujitsu warm-up
by jogging around the mat
fellas where are we going you ever run
in jiu jitsu are you fucking kidding me
the mats that's fucking big you're going
nowhere to go as a matter of fact if you
physically turn in run during jujitsu
that is either a point deduction or you
just forfeit the match because you're
clearly just fucking running away that's
a non-verbal submission so why are we
running it all like well it's warming up
well can we warm up in a way that warms
us up but also is jiu-jitsu specific
well yes we start doing instructionals
and drills of actual jutsu positions you
get warm like that no problem and it's a
specific kind of warm that warms up all
of your joints that you use for jiu
jitsu not fucking running so a lot of
times when people say oh yeah well look
let's drop to practice and let's start
running
maybe not jiu jitsu wrestling jesus even
basketball
start with some dribbling stuff some
ball handling drills shoot a little bit
move up and down the court a little bit
and then play some small sided stuff and
then you're warm and then you can get
into the rest of your basketballs you
don't have to jog and i know it sounds
like i have this huge thing as jogging i
don't it's just this giant fucking
cudgel that people hit over the head of
sports and there's so much more
specificity available it's just like um
it's like the last resort of the
uncreative and if it's something you
inherited and it's something you you do
and have done and it's gotten you good
results that's totally cool and maybe it
will continue to get good results i just
want to encourage you as a practitioner
or coach of sport to think the things we
need to do in practice here can we do
them in a better way
than with jogging i don't want you to
think can we do them without jogging
there's nothing wrong with jogging but
if there's nothing a whole lot right
with it and the competitor to jogging is
like we get in the mat and actually
start drilling wrestling and that's how
we warm up and that's how we practice
the benefit there is you get all the
same cardio benefits all the same
warm-up benefits but you also sharpen up
and practice technique extra fuck christ
that's just way better right
point number three do not run when it
counter sports needs the distance
running in linemen do not mix
and should not mix your sport knees as
alignment is like three to six seconds
of extremely explosive activity jogging
has nothing to fucking do with that and
people say oh we need to get these guys
into cardio shape put them on the
football field and have them run drills
that simulate their sport and have them
rest a little less than they would
prefer and they get in great shape and
get all the other benefits too where are
we jogging to
if you were really good at jogging as a
lineman the best way to get good at
jogging is to lose weight transition
your fibers from faster twitch to slower
twitch and that just actually makes you
worse it actually makes you worse if you
want to make the average lineman who's
already very good worse just have them
jog more all right so if it counters the
sport you know do we jog weight lifters
oh it's stupid should wrestlers be
jogging also probably not
most the time it's a bad idea but for
people like linemen and weightlifters
and powerlifters it's so contradictory
the sport is so bad for your abilities i
wouldn't do it in almost any case
because it's not just like oh it's this
other option it's not that great it's a
negative option it's a negative option
to that end don't run when it messes
with your joints
there's tons of fatigue to be had and
running for especially for larger people
with knee and hip joints that maybe
aren't so great for running why are you
doing it right a lot of people like yeah
man
joints beating me up
gotta go on this jog like you know
there's this thing called the elliptical
right and they're like well yeah but i
gotta run like oh i gotcha you got a
running meet you got a 5k coming up next
month they're like no man
i'm a basketball player like uh
you can't figure out what to do with a
basketball and a court that'll get you
in good shape good god you need a new
coach or a coach at all right so if it
messes with your joints and it's just no
good for you because it's repetitive
strain stop doing it running is not some
kind of magical thing that makes
everyone better at all sports it's just
not true
here's the biggest point to wrap it all
up
no dogma dogma has no place in sport
practice not in the modern world we know
so much with science and practical
experience
athletes don't run
athletes train how they need
okay
if that includes running great if the
needs analysis is running is great
awesome if running is the best use of
your time comparatively to other uses
amazing if it's not
athletes train they don't necessarily
run
see you next time