we just reset that expose to last night
I attempted to get a workout in with Rob
Lipsett our food took an hour and a half
to arrive it was chicken and rice not
get it together
Sir John a burrito that had all of the
toppings on top of it exactly it was it
like an inside-out great up so yeah
we're going to gold
let me turn this Rob this is John hey
seven is my pre-workout I've got high
volume key science in a caffeine
self-employment yeah that's true I
thought it was three you're gonna let me
off the hook they had to make a stick in
the rice man well just say I supposedly
should go without eating an introduction
but it is draw Oh
before every workout do like five to ten
minutes like general warm-up and then
getting questions sick stretches then
pre activations and I began doing my
workout so John get the whole body going
reservation it off with a pre activation
exercise to last nice and warm have a
stronger mind like the connection with
them or the subsequent exercise right
off yet what he said I like my rest
extra prolific since we selling no less
tables and pop pitches and I won't
mention my 10,000 hours in training by
juggling game bag in my back in West
amendment size number two really wonder
if a lot disease I've basically been
working in the 12 to 15 rep range for
like law supported the community from
actually waiting these on progressively
over lactose free senses well or not to
recess roughly 15 pushing that further
and further upward be the guidance II
know he will ridiculous venomous hate in
my heart the finish that run for cover
my letter yet prove itself I'm rolling
deep in their paper like two or gel but
full Skyler's I broke tighter than
version let's we're to take the game but
we just master Berlin is everything it's
a state mount day the side played
nowadays it's like an eight ball to the
face nowadays some lace nowadays
McGinnis up the waist nowadays it's
seven tickets a retainer for the kids
nowadays I'm talking higher power every
other hours is Eddie Bauers the stash
bicycle is showers breaking the padlock
in the dead cow Italian 2000's Italian
lion some run itself repairs like a
[ __ ] do share a profit so what I'll do
is I won't make my first set completely
failure on stop when I have like trouble
thanks egos in Oxbow for like the whole
day come in and hang out 15 reps
probably could have done with 17 or 18
but I'm gonna try to do is just keep the
roughly same across all the sex whatever
does in juicy room just ends up with a
wide grip pull up one thing that I do to
sort of like have to be my last even
more though is I always take a wider
grip to focus on keeping my abdominals
so much crunch kind of putting in more
that like upright upper torso position
but a lot of people do they use momentum
or they really are so fast like this you
jump into a test supported and low in
this case I am trying to work on the
trap you really want to focus on
scapular protraction and retraction
really think about driving back you want
to focus more on lat what you want to do
is chain work shoulder extension
bringing the arm is going straight down
in this case I'm thinking about bringing
my elbows more back because I want to
train the track that machine I find it
really has a really lock in the field
which doesn't feel natural to me at all
so Rob came through the question
discovered bank this machine right here
technology
drunken yeah and that's better because
you have like way more degrees of
freedom around the shoulder right yeah
talking to you there we sponsored by the
senior in arms in the sandbox
Oh John drive at night like a step same
you just remain calm and stable and then
I thought you know I'll have been
according with my work output I always
make sure I'm progressing on those safer
so it sort of like flexible training
yeah yeah my friend you look or not
murder my helicase you said burning my
favorite races they turn in my flower
pictures and earlier when you see
prisoners from selling in that relay in
deciding is Reza fated like you know so
[ __ ] me to take oh so you my
[ __ ] you sensor instrumentum I got a
slave I got away again I say the [ __ ]
I'm not to play with the records if
you're my favorite because there's a
[ __ ] traitor swap place I've really
fallen angel says all day after the
guy's girlfriend take the guys Pinterest
guy juices phone and he goes well
nothing sexy good [ __ ] more good
[ __ ] morning here at Target
post-workout and I'm going through the
chocolate milk remove low-fat milk in
one container 19 grams of protein 34
graphic are you serious yeah nothing
round kid oh my god get on that Truman a
lot of solid Truman we just finished up
the workout was kept advice that stuff
kind of quick there's a lot of carryover
obviously between moving and biceps
thank you John so much man for the
substitute really what a play about
hazard long overdue you down thank you
so my gosh them girlfriend that film yes
I mean he really does say thank you
we left her only me what is going on
everyone as we got back in Tampa late
last night and I felt like I just had a
complete potato day the regen was like
really really fun but also super
exhausting actually in both sides once
the whole day I'm actually going to be
filming some clips or John penises
channel which means uploading a video
where him and I discuss our favorite
exercise for every body part put a link
to that video right here put all the
description is the link to John channel
in the description if you like the video
videos and subscribe you can already on
your channel
I probably more tightly outros it is
easy to do to be interesting so the
party links down below
[Music]