constant tension training is mostly
 here's
why welcome back soon to be Dr my wolf
here with wolf coaching actually talking
about the topic of my PhD again today
constant tension training has been
around for a while and has been espoused
by many bodybuilding and fitness Pros
the general ideas of constant tension
training are to keep the tension on the
muscle make the muscle do all the work
skip the part of the range of motion
where the muscle isn't working or isn't
active and finally not to give the
muscle any time to rest and many more
such explanations now let's go through
where this might be correct and where it
might actually be incorrect first up
constant tension has a bit of a point in
fact shortened positions the peak
contraction or the squeeze doesn't
really seem to add much in terms of
hypertrophy in fact when you compare
doing just short and partials or just a
part of the range motion where you get
the squeeze to doing full reps or to
getting just the bottom part you see
substantially less growth and this was
demonstrated in my recent metth analysis
on range of motion so by avoiding those
shortened positions keeping constant
tension on the muscle or doing kind of
the middle half to 3/4 of the 4ing of
motion you're avoiding that shorten
position that is actually worse for
growth next there might be a potential
sort of rest pause effect of constant
tension training on growth by not
allowing yourself to rest potentially
like for example when you're leg
pressing and you lock out the rep you
might be allowing the quals to rest
relative to how much force they have to
produce throughout the rest of the rep
and so when you're doing FL Ranger
motion like pressing you're getting a
little bit of rest between each rep by
doing constant tension training if there
is any benefit to avoiding that rest you
might be getting it we just don't really
know yet whether or not that's the case
in all likelihood it doesn't really
matter but it could turn out that
there's some truth to that next there
may also be a point to constant tension
training or avoiding the fully
lengthened position and the fully
shortened position when you have some
pre-existing pain there is some research
in the study by stealing colleagues for
example training at either extreme of
the range of motion at fully shortened
or fully lengthened positions seems to
result in Greater pain scores in people
who already have pre-existing lower back
pain and so avoiding those positions
might make for easier training for
people who already have injuries that
are causing them pain in daily life or
during training finally there is
actually one study on this topic it's
not directly on this topic because as
much as this is a study comparing
constant tension training to full range
em motion training the constant tension
condition actually kind of trained more
so with length and partials rather than
constant tension but it's kind of in
between the two this was of course a
study by goto and colleagues in this
study they compared doing constant
tension training or roughly half reps in
the middle of the range of motion to
doing full range of motion Skull
Crushers what did they find well they
found that the group training with
constant tension training AKA roughly
half reps in the middle of the 4 in
motion
saw more tricep growth than the group
training with four range emotion
consistently interestingly you did see
greater amounts of lactate accumulation
in the group training with constant
tension which suggests that if there is
any benefit to latic accumulation and
there is some research on that that's
currently not at a very conclusive stage
yet in addition the constant tension
group actually saw greater increases in
blood lactate compared to the 4in
emotion group and there is some emerging
evidence that blood lactate or lactate
accumulation within the muscle could
could cause some hypertrophy with all
that being said though I don't think
this is a very compelling case in favor
of constant tension training to be
honest first off there's a very good
chance that constant tension training is
just about as effective as a full range
motion we have some research comparing
length and partials to a full range
motion and we have a pretty good idea at
this point the reason why lengthen
partials might result in more growth
compared to a full range motion is
because it shifts the average muscle
length being trained such that the
longer the average muscle length you're
training through the greater hypertrophy
response you see when you're doing
constant tension training the average
muscle length being trained doesn't
actually change and so at least on that
front constant tension training should
be no better than just doing a full
range of motion to add insult to injury
by avoiding that fully lengthened
position when you're doing constant
tension training you are likely making
the hypertrophy a bit worse this is why
lengthened partials do appear to be
better for hypertrophy within a four
range of motion and so by avoiding that
fully lengthened fully stretched
position when you're doing constant
tension half reps you may never be
getting quite as much hypertrophy as if
you actually went all the way down and
still avoided the lockout or still
avoided the really shortened position I
actually have one cool study I want to
bring up I want you again to take this
with a bit of a grain of salt because it
hasn't been polished yet however one of
the studies in my PhD was a study in the
calves every participant had their two
legs assigned to one of two conditions
one leg was assigned to a 4 in motion
condition the other leg was assigned to
essentially a constant tension condition
where they would perform half reps in
the in the middle of the repetition
avoiding both the fully lengthened
position and the fully shortened
position the study was designed this way
number one to maximize power when you
have participants train their two limbs
separately you can actually maximize the
accuracy of your findings simply because
then there is less confounding or less
noise introduced by differences in diet
after all both my legs are impacted the
Same by how much I eat whether and all I
consume enough protein and that sort of
stuff but the second reason why this
study was performed and designed the way
it was is because it allowed us to
compare the effects of 4ange Mo motion
to partial reps when the average muscle
length being trained is the same so in
this case essentially comparing a full
range of motion to constant tension
training what did we find well for the
lateral gas tralk for the medial gas
tralk and for the Solus there were
essentially no differences in growth
between a 4in motion and constant
tension training within the calves and
so actually this is pretty compelling
evidence that when you're comparing a 4
range of motion constant tension
training you don't really see a
difference in growth and this brings me
to my next Point constant tension is not
a hack it is not magical it is mostly
just preference and it is likely no
better than just a full range of motion
and in fact if you wanted maximal growth
there's a very good chance that you
would achieve this by using some length
and partials or even exclusively length
from partials within your training
rather than either constant tension or
full range motion or what have you
that's the video if you like constant
tension training go ahead just be aware
that it's probably no better than for
range of motion and if you want to
optimize gross as I discussed in this
video here you might want to consider
incorporating some lengthened partial
training into your routine if you like
the video please like comment subscribe
donate support the grind it's like 5:00
p.m. you know we're always grinding I
will see you in the next one goodbye