[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for our P
at-home workout sample number two you
might have seen number one already
it was our chest and tricep number two
back and biceps we have one back
exercise four sets and then one bicep
exercise for four sets super short
at-home workout you can put this
together with other at home workouts to
make a longer one or you can do these
more frequently today we're gonna do
flexion rows which will teach you how to
do and we're gonna do hammer curls and
by we I really mean our piece head of
coaching Doug he volunteered so to speak
and now he's gonna be working out at
home for your entertainment if you like
what you see you can just copy these
workouts and adjust them for yourself
but if you want to buy stuff links in
the description for our peace at home
workout super plan it's actually been
around for a while maybe you like it
let's take a look at the first exercise
flexion rows alright folks our first
exercise the one we're gonna do for the
back is going to be something called a
flexion row this is really just a
dumbbell bent over oh but it involves
the spinal erectors so it's going to be
doing active flexion and extension of
the spine first we're gonna want to
familiarize dealt with this get them a
little bit warmed up so when you do your
own training do at least one set a few
reps just to get things moving and then
we can work into our first high rep sets
to failure
Doug even the flexion rows a shot real
quick so he's gonna set up by bending
over notice his back is rounded at the
bottom we actually want this as he rose
up towards his hips he's gonna arch his
back staying low but keeping his chest
pointed up hit it and up and down slow
and round and arch back up perfect and
round and two more and up and we're
gonna go all the way to the ground for a
deep stretch and come all the way up
chest up and down slow perfect and rack
that involves the entire back Doug is
gonna rest 30 seconds to a minute until
he feels fresh
and he's gonna do his first set to
all-out technical failure we're training
at home we got to hit it hard we only
have dumbbells they're not that heavy
we're gonna do super high reps sets of
probably 20 to 30 and then we're gonna
rest five to ten seconds between sets
something that takes three to five
breaths per Doug and then we're gonna go
right back into it we're gonna do this
four times to destroy our back let's do
it
Doug you ready awesome hit your first
set technique is a must start rounded
chest up and then chest back down and
then chest up beautiful and then chest
back down and down these are getting
sloppy stay low oh and two more keep
that arch as soon as you can arch you're
done
ah one more good one big stretch and
arch and stay low arch and down very
good very good you could keep going on
these but if they get sloppy it's for
naught so feel that in your whole back
situation do you feel it in your soul
always always well looks like we
 it for long enough
hit it again at least five reps here
folks
unless you're terribly out of shape go
big chest whoo that's borderline one
more we're gonna want this to be arched
the whole mid-back oh that's it very
good awesome
you'll notice when you approach failure
on these it starts to look like you're
giving birth or something you can't
quite do this anymore
you're like stuck in this mid-range
that's when you know it's time to give
it up write down your reps luckily I
have a photographic memory
so I remember all these reps but you're
gonna want to write them down between
sets you probably walk over write your
reps down walk back and you're ready to
go
which reminds me you're ready to go very
good uh-huh you could arch more big arch
yes that's what we want
arch up yes and slow and down excellent
relax folks that's three sets already
these are not very long workouts
but they're kind of tough right yeah
he's feeling it all right cool you know
five to ten seconds there's no rush but
we don't want to wait too long to where
we ended up doing tons of sets of super
high reps we want to keep the focus on
the muscle notice he's not breathing
super heavily it's not very centrally
taxing so we can go back to back to back
and the muscle is still a limiting
factor I've already blabbed too much hit
it I want that chest to go up arch yes
and slow and arch and slow don't have
your whole body come up chest up and
slow slow slow slow slow and that's it
perfect folks that's four sets already
dogs gonna rest a little bit and we're
gonna do the next exercise which is
hammer curls folks Doug has had about a
minute rest
but he's training at home he's got a
bunch of other stuff to do bills to pay
kids maybe to feed certainly pets folks
it's time to get back to training hammer
curls we're gonna do a warm-up always a
warm-up first you know three to five
reps just to get the feel of movement we
don't have to do tons of wormus it's
just not that much weight Doug show us
four hammer curls look like we're going
to start out perfect dumbbells alright
besides we're gonna come up all the way
up and in control all the way down very
good and all the way up excellent and
control and you're gonna want to Arkin
for just a little yes cool maybe not
that much and control and dumbbells up
and control and relax that's it very
good you can put them down after you
warmed up you know rest a minute or so
maybe 30 seconds and we're ready to
begin our four sets back to back to back
no separation but five to ten seconds
between them just to get our mojo back
the first set is gonna be 20 to 30 reps
maybe even higher all the way to failure
and then all the other stuff sort of
failure usually landing in the 5 to 10
rep range let's give a dog a little
break and then get back right at it
beautiful one too slow good technique
one more with good technique to let
those elbows flare last one go and slow
slow slow and that's it
awful terrible rack very good got a lot
of reps there 30-plus that's what we
estimated the dumbbells to be this is a
real world example you might only have
dumbbells at home that you can go 30 40
50 reps with you have to grind it out
and get close to failure or right at it
let's go right away
good technique hit it slow beautiful it
up slow excellent three slow that
 left elbow dug fix it
last one and slow slow slow
good that's it that's technical failure
good job one last one let's go finish up
strong excellent watch that left elbow
make sure it stays in good good let's do
three more no leaning back go
one slow elbows in - yes slow and last
one technique technique slow control
control control and down awesome dude
good job Oh folks have you not seen that
for so long where were the 90s where are
they now that's it for a workout honest
handshake this time dog very good job
the reason I'm not doing this is because
I'm scared of going all the way to
failure it haunts me at night if you
want an exact period I explain of how to
do this stuff at home see the links in
the description are peas got stuff to
sell you as usual if not no big deal you
can read our free articles and you can
do this workout at home by yourself
folks take care of yourselves and I'll
see you next time for the next video
you
[Music]