low volume or high volume what's best
for building muscle according to the
science welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
with you today PhD in sport Science with
wolf coaching over there not over there
today we're talking volume let me break
it down for a long time now lifs have
gotten jacked using both lower volume
and higher volume approaches on the
lower volume side of things you have
people like Mike menser who are
infamously doing as few as only a hand
full of sets per week per muscle group
and seemingly they got pretty jacked on
the other side of the debate you have
people like Arnold Schwarzenegger and
Rony Coleman training with really high
volumes at times Well in excess of 30 to
40 sets per session and often adding up
to volumes per week of 30 or 40 or 50
sets per week per muscle and so you have
a wide degree of variance between
approaches even at the top level and
well they all got pretty jacked however
what can Elite lifos actually tell us
about how to get jacked it turns out
things like PD use genetics and even
other training variables can have a
larger impact on hypertrophy than just
volume and so while looking at what
successful bodybuilders are doing can be
a nice sort of test for seeing all
right does this play an irrevocably
large role that cannot be overcome by
any other combination of variables in
practice if it did you would see that
all top lifters used High volumes or low
volumes and there was no in between but
it turns out that's not the case equally
top lifters can't really tell us much
when it comes to smaller effects that
can easily be overshadowed by the
aformentioned PD use and genetics and so
that is where science comes in yes
science science allows us to measure the
impact of variables whose impact might
be too small for us to really be able to
visualize detect or observe within real
life contexts that have a lot of noise
in them but ultimately these effects can
still be meaningful to us the aage
lifters just trying to get more jacked
so on a scientific level which is better
higher or lower volumes first off why
would training volume even impact
hypertrophy well training volume can
have Downstream effects on a variety of
things that can then potentially impact
hypertrophy for example higher volumes
could cause greater accumulation of
metabolites however higher volumes could
also cause more fatigue and with higher
volumes potentially causing more fatigue
and more muscle damage that means too
much volume and you could potentially
overdo it and so if you overdo it and
overdo the amount of of muscle damage
that you incur you might actually be
reducing how much muscle growth you see
and equally although more volume could
be better for hypertrophy on account of
being more tension more metabol
accumulation or any other number of
things it does also cause more fatigue
and whenever you cause more fatigue from
training with higher volumes there is an
opportunity cost that you could instead
be training closer to failure for
example and so when you increase volume
there is an opportunity cost in terms of
fatigue the primary way in which
training volume could impact your
hypertrophy is through modu ulating how
much tension you're exposing your
muscles to both passive tension and
active tension passive tension is
essentially tension your muscles
experience kind of like a rubber band as
you lengthen a muscle you're building up
tension that makes it want to return to
its resting length conversely active
tension is tension that your muscles
produce I.E to lift a weight for example
when you're forming cross Bridges within
your muscle and since tension is the
primary driver of hypertrophy from
lifting weights volume can absolutely
impact tension which can absolutely have
impacts on hypertrophy but mechanistic
rational and rationalism in general can
only take us so far when it comes to
trying to determine which approach is
better in the gym as far as muscle
growth goes empirical results where we
actually put these things to the test
and measure hypertrophy are much more
robust typically and should be
prioritized over just mechanistic
rationals so what does the direct
evidence on low volumes versus high
volumes for hypertrophy actually tell us
before we dive into the results of the
literature let me give you a quick
primer on how volume is typically
studied within exercise signs first sets
are typically counted both directly and
indirectly that means that a set of
cable flies would count as one set
towards your chest however a set of
bench press would count as one set
toward your chest triceps and front DTS
essentially no matter really how well a
muscle group is being hit during a
compound movement that movement will
still count towards the set number for
that muscle group additionally most
studies on volume usually have
relatively short rest times that's
because it makes it easier to study you
don't have participants in the lab
training for quite as long but it does
mean that each set becomes a little bit
less potent I have a whole video on rest
times you can check out here but the
long story short is that the less you
rest between sets the less potent for
muscle growth each set becomes and so
when we're looking at these numbers
within the data in xise science we
should just keep in mind that our own
numbers for maximum muscle growth might
be a little bit lower on account of
generally resting longer than people do
Within These studies and likewise if you
only ever count movements as counting as
one set for one muscle group for example
the bench press would only count as one
set for your chest for example if you
think the bench press best walks your
chest and not so much with triceps or
front outs the best number of sets for
you will again look different from what
you're observing in the literature
you're not counting sets in the same way
and the final thing I wanted to bring up
with these volume studies is that
several of these studies really only
look at one or a few muscle groups at
once in general because you can both
overdo volume and potentially for
example cause so much muscle damage that
a hypertrophy takes a hit and because
you can underdo volume essentially just
not train enough to stimulate a robust
hypertrophy response scientists and
practitioners alike suspect that volume
follows an inverted U relationship with
hypertrophy and so throughout this video
we'll keep an eye out and see whether we
can porse out the exact shape of the
relationship between volume and
hypertrophy let's get into the science
on the topic first we have a metan
analysis by sh feling colle from 2017
looking at the effects of volume on
muscle hypertrophy in short across a
variety of analyses higher volumes were
better for hypertrophy specifically
doing more than 10 sets per week per
muscle was better than doing fewer than
10 sets per week per muscle they found a
dose response relationship between
training volume and muscle hypertrophy
unfortunately this study doesn't give us
much insight into volumes much pasted
around 10 sets per week per muscle and
the reason for this is very simple at
the time of this analysis there simply
hadn't been enough studies looking at
higher volumes to have much granularity
in their analysis of how volume impacts
hypertrophy unfortunately that doesn't
really tell us much because even the
lowest volume programs often even the
programs ran by Mike mener have more
than 10 sets per week per muscle for
some muscle groups at least very few
people are truly doing less than 10 sets
per week per muscle however there is a
more recent metanalysis on training
volume as well in this metanalysis by
bzv and colleagues in 2022 they only
looked at studies performed in train
lifters with at least one year of
training experience they categorized
volumes into being either low that is to
say below 12 sets medium between 12 and
20 sets per week per muscle and high
over 20 sets per week per muscle they
looked at the triceps biceps and quads
those are simply the muscle groups in
which the most training studies on
volume had been performed When comparing
medium between 12 and 20 sets per week
per muscle and high volumes over 20 sets
per week per muscle they generally found
similar hypertrophy for the quads and
the biceps but greater hypertrophy with
higher volumes for the triceps however
if you look past just significance you
will see that all effect sizes did Lean
in favor of higher volumes in excess of
20 sets per week per muscle so there is
likely some benefit to be had in going
over 20 sets per week per muscle at
least when it comes to the triceps my
suspicion is that this probably also
applies to the biceps and quads so does
that mean we should just train every
muscle group with an excess of 20 sets
per week per muscle well fortunately we
don't need to stop there we have further
evidence that has come out since the
publication of this metth analysis
comparing lower training volumes of
under 20 sets per week to higher
training volumes of over 20 sets per
week and in total we now have eight
studies looking at exactly this to give
you a quick breakdown of these eight
studies and not go into each one
individually for found broadly speaking
a benefit in favor of over 20 sets a
week and the other four have broadly
found no difference between under 20
sets a week per muscle and over 20 sets
per week per muscle muscle so on net
balance there is likely still a benefit
to be had with high volumes of over 20
sets per week per muscle and if you want
a full breakdown of these eight studies
and literally all of the research on
super high training volumes for
hypertrophy I recommend checking out the
Strong by science podcast episode we
recently did on exactly this topic Link
in the description so is that it does
that mean that super high training
volumes are always best and you should
train every muscle group with at least
20 sets per week per muscle well maybe
not let me give you a few caveat to
these findings and then potential use
cases for both higher and lower volume
training caveat number one when training
with super high training volumes you
also have a huge increase in the time
spent in the gym but in all likelihood
you are battling against diminishing
returns and how much muscle growth
you're getting there are certain
techniques to circumvent this issue like
Drop sets and antagonistic paired super
sets that allow you to get more training
volume in in less time and potentially
see more hypertrophy I have a whole
video on both of those techniques in the
description below equally if and when
this sounds crazy to you these super
high training volumes in some studies as
high as 45 sets per week per muscle keep
in mind that compound movements count as
one set towards multiple muscle groups
let's use 45 sets per week per muscle as
an example for the triceps if you
running an upper lower split six days a
week so training your upper body three
times a week and on each of those
training days you did five sets of bench
five sets of overhead press and five
sets of pushdowns that would actually
result in 45 sets for the triceps a week
and so when you count volume also
indirectly that volume doesn't sound
quite as crazy anymore equally though if
you just don't have enough time
available even with techniques like Drop
sets and antagonistic paod super sets to
get this volume in a decent or even good
alternative might be to Simply take each
set closer to failure a recent meta
regression by Robinson colleagues
suggested that The Closer you take a set
to failure all else being equal the more
hypertrophy you will see from that set
and to go back to the trade-off I
Illustrated earlier in this video if you
can't take the route of doing more
volume you can take the route of going
closer to failure as ultimately both
seem to lead to more stimulus but also
more fatigue and which one you pick will
come down in part to how much time you
have the second caveat of This research
that you have to be aware of is one they
were counting indirect sets two the rest
times were generally pretty low and
three whether or not these crazy high
training volumes are possible for all
muscle groups at once is relatively
doubtful most of these training studies
on high volumes used rest times of 1 or
2 minutes between sets because training
all your muscle groups with super high
training volumes at once may not be
feasible either in terms of time it just
takes a ton of time or in terms of
fatigue it does open up one specific use
case and that is specialization in
specialization you would push certain
muscle groups to higher volumes
potentially from 10 to 20 sets a week
closer to 20 to 35 sets a week while
taking a similar number of muscle groups
and pushing them from 10 to 20 sets a
week closer to 5 to 10 sets a week
essentially just making sure that
overall volume within your program is
manageable by pushing certain muscle
groups higher in volume you may see more
growth in those muscle groups at the
expense of muscle growth in those non
prioritized or non-specialized muscle
groups the Second Use case is that you
can probably train with more volume than
you previously thought and still see a
benefit in terms of hypertrophy in my
program I personally train most muscle
groups with 15 to 25 sets a week or more
and in fact if you count indirect volume
some muscle groups like The triceps and
biceps are trained with relatively close
to 30 sets a week per muscle and that's
outside of the context of a strict
specialization phase so in general in
light of This research you may want to
go a little bit higher in terms of
volume use case number three for high
training volumes is if you just prefer
training with high training volumes and
the same goes for lower training volumes
if you have a preference and your aim
isn't simply to do what maximizes your
growth feel free to go with that
approach instead and importantly even if
you train with somewhat low four volumes
of say between 5 sets a week per muscle
and 15 sets a week per muscle you can
still make really solid hypertrophy
gains I have a whole video coming up on
minimalist training or essentially how
to get the most out of the least time
spent in the gym so check that out if
it's out already or stay tuned if it's
coming out soon but training volume does
seem to have diminishing returns so even
if you only want to train with five to
15 sets per week per muscle you will
still see some pretty solid hypertrophy
let me give you some quick takeaways one
Higher volume will generally be better
for hypertrophy to a point in trained
populations volumes in excess of 20 or
more sets a week seem to be required to
maximize hypertrophy because you may not
have the time or be able to recover from
doing this much volume for all muscle
groups at once specializing on a few
muscle groups at once taking them higher
in terms of volume might be a good use
case for This research finally lower
volumes do still absolutely work just
not quite as well in terms of muscle
growth as high volumes you can still
make really solid gains with lower
volumes and if you're someone who's
pressed for time for example you can
definitely take a lower volume approach
and still see hypertrophy gains
especially if you take each set a little
bit closer to failure than you usually
would that is the video broke down all
the research on training volume for
hypertrophy whether higher volumes are
better than lower volumes and more if
you enjoyed the video please consider
liking commenting subscribing I really
do appreciate your support it helps out
the channel and helps me bring more
quality information to you if you want
to see me break down any other topics
leave a comment down below letting me
know what you want me to cover if you'd
like me to coach you check out the link
above and we could enter a coaching
relationship in the meantime have a
fantastic day and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one
peace the primary way in which I suspect
training volumes impacting hypertrophy
is through
different the primary way in which I
suspect 10 the primary way in which I
expect uh let me repeat that let me just
take my time