foreign
[Music]
we introduced a 2017 review study out of
the USA that made bold statements about
how long it takes for muscle growth to
Plateau they suggest growth of the upper
and lower body muscles plateaus within
three months with trained individuals
unlikely to see further appreciable
muscle growth we noted how the
experiments used to support these
controversial conclusions had
limitations none of them mentioned and
thus likely optimized nutritional
factors such as calorie and protein
intake two things crucial for long-term
muscle growth and all of them although
applying Progressive overload had
subjects train each muscle with only one
exercise involved no rep range variation
and no change in the number of sets
performed these are limitations as some
exercise variety per muscle group may be
beneficial for sustaining long-term
gains and growing more regions across a
muscle moreover some evidence suggests
training with a variety of rep ranges
could lead to more long-term muscle
growth finally increasing set numbers
seems to be an effective way to
potentiate muscle growth and get past
plateaus in trained individuals however
I still saw a few people in the comments
dejected that there's evidence muscle
growth may show Plateau signs within
three months with some even saying this
is why Peds are useful needless to say
this is not what I wanted people to take
away I was trying to demonstrate that by
optimizing your training sustained
long-term natural muscle growth is
absolutely possible
nonetheless I've searched the literature
even further and would like to share a
few of my findings that I believe can be
highly useful and informative for those
wishing to develop their physiques
moreover all the upcoming data should
make you rest assured natural muscle
growth can progress for a long time
we'll be touching on factors such as
body recomposition sleep
individualization and the power of the
mind this is going to be a fun one let's
get into it
before going further a little about our
sponsor Atlas VPN chances are you love
training will do but recovery is
important too there's no better way to
recover than relaxing and watching your
favorite shows while Downing a protein
shake but we all know streaming
platforms restrict access to shows based
on your location Atlas VPN can help you
out
a VPN encrypts your internet connection
and allows you to relocate yourself
if a streaming platform only streams a
show in a certain country simply use
Atlas VPN to relocate yourself to that
country
right now and not for very long Atlas
VPN is running a huge discount you can
get a three-year subscription for just
1.83 a month plus three months for free
with a 30-day money-back guarantee
Atlas VPN also provides you with
Incredible security blocking malicious
links ads and trackers
Atlas VPN is compatible with all your
devices again you can get a three-year
subscription for just 1.83 a month plus
three months free with a 30-day
money-back guarantee Link in the
description
thank you to Atlas VPN for supporting
the house of hypertrophy back to the
video
[Music]
the previous video I noted alongside
protein intake eating more calories to
put you in a surplus leads to Greater
muscle growth in previously untrained
and trained folks
the importance of a caloric Surplus when
maximizing muscle growth becomes greater
than more trained you get
for one reason or another many folks may
not like a surplus due to the associated
fat gain fortunately the literature
demonstrates that trained individuals
can still experience good muscle mass
gains with little to no fat accrual
provided protein intake is in the
recommended range of 1.6 to 2.2 grams
per kilogram of body weight
a 2006 study out of Australia recruited
trained men who bench pressed an average
84 kilograms and backscorth in an
average 80 kilograms in other words they
Skip Leg Day
subjects trained this program for 10
weeks subjects did not increase their
calories versus before the study and
were likely not in a surplus one group
of subjects supplemented with whey
protein while another group supplemented
with casein both groups ultimately
consumed around 2 to 2.2 grams of
protein per kilogram of body weight
daily
the way supplement group saw a
concurrent increase in lean mass with
decreases in fat Mass while the casein
group saw smaller increases in lean mass
with little change in fat Mass
this study seemingly indicates whey
protein is superior to casein yet I
should note another study found both to
be similar thus the differences in this
study could just be related to the small
sample sizes
in any event I mentioned this data to
demonstrate that trained individuals can
still experience a good increase in lean
mass with little changes or even
decreases in fat Mass
a 2015 study out of the USA recruited 32
trained men who squatted 120 kilograms
benched 102 kilograms and deadlifted 158
kilograms these subjects didn't seem to
Skip Leg Day
subjects trained this program for four
weeks with one group supplementing some
mixed ingredient supplement while
another group took a placebo
unfortunately calorie and protein
intakes were not mentioned but both a
supplement and placebo group saw
increases in lean mass with little
changes in fat Mass the placebo group
actually tended to lose fat
so again this study demonstrates that
trained individuals can see good
increases in lean mass with little
changes or decreases in fat Mass
a 2018 study out of the USA recruited 28
trained men who squatted 138 kilograms
benched 103 kilograms and deadlifted 163
kilograms all subjects perform the same
number of sets per week on their
exercises but one group trained their
exercises with a frequency of three
times per week while another group
trained their exercises with a frequency
of 6 times per week
calorie and protein intakes were
unfortunately not mentioned but both
groups similarly increased fat-free Mass
the greater gains for the six times
group were non-significant while fat
decreased in the three times group with
minimal changes in the six times group
finally a 2019 study Act of Brazil
recruited 23 trained men who bench
pressed 103 kilograms and squatted 132
kilograms one group trained with a bro
split style routine
while another group trained with a full
body routine
the number of sets performed on each
exercise per week was the same between
groups subjects were consuming what
appeared to be maintenance calories and
they consumed around 1.9 grams of
protein per kilogram of body weight
daily
ultimately both groups similarly
increase lean mass fat Mass was not
mentioned but given subjects were eating
around maintenance fat Mass gains are
unlikely
so these studies collectively
demonstrate that trained individuals are
capable of increasing lean mass with
little to no fat changes provided
protein intake is sufficient
moreover as alluded to by some of the
data body recomposition that is
increasing muscle while losing fat is
also possible in trained individuals
there's ample literature indicating body
recomposition can occur in trained
individuals to set this up you may do
the following firstly a caloric deficit
is your surest bet to ensure fat loss
but too much of a deficit will impair
lean mass gains a recent 2021
meta-analysis indicates a 500 calorie
deficit maybe the point where lean must
gain cease when resistance training so a
deficit smaller than 500 calories is
recommended secondly ensuring adequate
protein intake in the range of 1.6 to
2.2 grams per kilogram of body weight is
likely required
of course the more and more trained you
get the more difficult it is to attain
body recomposition but so long as you're
not super Advanced and really close to
your genetic ceiling the literature
overviewed convincingly demonstrates
that trained individuals can see gains
in muscle mass with little change or
decreases in fat Mass
as a final point for the section recall
that the review study mentioned at the
start of the video indicated trained
individuals are unlikely to see further
appreciable gains yet all the data we've
overviewed in this section strongly
opposed this the trained individuals saw
appreciable adaptations
[Music]
in the studies that review study used to
support the idea muscle growth plateaus
in three months none of them mentioned
sleep the fact is sleep matters for
adaptations it may be even more
important for adaptations if you're
eating at a maintenance or a deficit a
2018 study out of the USA recruited 36
individuals classed as obese and had
them reduce their caloric intake by 29
to 43 percent
Group 1 slept as normal sleeping around
six to seven hours per night group two
slept one hour less than usual for five
days a week this ended up in them
sleeping five to six hours per night
while during the other two days of the
week they slept however long they wanted
this ended up being seven to eight hours
of sleep
after eight weeks both groups lost
similar body mass however group one who
slept normally lost way more fat mass
than muscle mass while group 2 lost way
more muscle mass than fat Mass
now neither group lifted weights and the
subjects were untrained obese
individuals but still this study
powerfully demonstrates how just one
hour of sleep restriction for five days
a week negatively impacts body
composition changes
other research demonstrate sleep
restriction lowers muscle protein
synthesis increases cortisol a catabolic
hormone and lowest testosterone an
anabolic hormone so ensuring you attain
a sufficient quantity and quality of
sleep is important for promoting
long-term muscle and fat tissue
alterations
[Music]
something I wish I did in the previous
video was present research showing
trained individuals still respond well
to training there's ample evidence
finding this and this research directly
opposes that review studies hypothesis
that trained individuals will not
experience further appreciable
adaptations now we've already overviewed
some of the research with the literature
finding that trained individuals still
experience good lean mass gains even
without a caloric Surplus but I think
it's useful to look at some more and
some of these upcoming studies will
provide further useful information
this 2019 study out of Brazil recruited
20 trained men with an average 94
kilogram bench press and an average 125
kilogram back squat
one group trained their muscles once a
week while another twice a week the
number of exercise sets performed each
week was the same between groups
ultimately both groups saw comparable
and notable increases in triceps biceps
vastus lateralis and anterior quadriceps
growth
the percentage gains range from 5 to 11
in thickness which is still notable and
non-trivial gains a 2015 study out of
New York recruited 18 men with an
average bench press of around 101
kilograms and a back score of 121
kilograms
subjects trained these exercises for
three sets per session Thrice per week
for eight weeks Group 1 trained with 8
to 12 reps to failure per set and the
second group with 25 to 35 reps to
failure
ultimately both groups saw comparable
and notable increases in biceps triceps
and quadriceps for Morris growth the
percentages range from five to nine
percent in thickness
another 2016 study out of New York
recruited 13 men with an average 93
kilogram bench press and an average 118
kilogram back squat
subjects trained these exercises for
three sets of 8-12 reps to failure per
session Thrice per week for eight weeks
one group rested three minutes between
sets a second group rested one minute
between sets ultimately both group saw
gains and biceps triceps anterior
quadriceps and vastus lateralis but the
gains were greater for the group resting
for three minutes
this finding is consistent with the rest
of the literature with compound
exercises specifically compound
exercises were mainly trained in the
study 2.5 to 3 minutes of rest tends to
produce greater muscle growth versus
shorter Restorations
this finding emphasizes how optimizing
variables can meaningfully promote
greater growth in trained individuals
another notable variable is
individualizing your exercise selection
not everyone has the same anatomy and
preferences and this can matter for
muscle growth we covered this in a
previous video but it's worth briefly
overviewing this interesting study again
17 men who back squatted an average 140
kilograms and bench pressed an average
110 kilograms were recruited subjects
were assigned to a fixed or
auto-regulated group
the fixed group was given this program
to train weekly the auto regulated group
was free to select what exercises they
wanted to train per Master group each
session from a wide list all other
training variables were the same between
groups
by the end of the nine-week study
duration lean body mass gains were
greater for the auto regulated group
presumably at least some of this result
is due to trained individuals having a
good understanding of what exercises
work best for them leading to better
muscle adaptations so individualizing
your exercise selection can be important
[Music]
a seriously underrated aspect of
progressing in anything including muscle
and strength is your mindset there's
compelling research demonstrating the
power your mind can have on your gains I
have a whole video on the research
behind this feel free to check that out
but to give you an idea this study
included power lifters who benched an
average 189 kilograms squatted an
average 257 kilograms and deadlifted an
average 260 kilograms so these subjects
were very very strong
prior to testing one rep Maxes again on
these exercises the researchers gave the
power lifters immediate acting steroids
however the subjects were unaware it was
not steroids at all rather just a mere
Placebo pill
after taking the fake steroids all
subjects hit personal records the
subject's wondering Maxes were an
average 9.5 kilograms higher on the
bench press 12.2 kilograms higher on the
squat and 10.9 kilograms higher on the
deadlift versus Baseline
fascinatingly the authors noted these
performance increases represented a
change from being nationally ranked to
being internationally ranked for all
subjects
these results demonstrate the potency of
the Mind
the subjects did not consume steroids it
was a placebo meaning that added
strength gains came from within the
subjects they held that capacity within
them
again feel free to check out our whole
video on the mind but due to all this I
think it's essential for individuals to
stay optimistic on their muscle and
strength building Journey it's likely
detrimental to have the mindset you're
going to Plateau or you can't progress
much further for the majority of the
people watching this this is probably
not true anyway I think it's best to
establish a mindset believing you have
more potential than you previously
believed
with all the added information in this
video I hope everyone rested assured
that muscle growth can very much
continue well in the long term we've
gone through numerous areas of the
literature demonstrating that trained
individuals still experience notable
muscle growth and this evidence
disproves that review studies
conclusions that trained individuals
will not see further appreciable growth
we've touched on how even in the absence
of a caloric Surplus trained individuals
can still see notable lean mass gains we
also noted the importance of sleep for
muscle and fat Mass alterations finally
don't underestimate the power of your
mind
[Music]