foreign
[Music]
hey guys Dr Mike foreignization and I'm
sure glad Jared feather ifb Pro is okay
because mere minutes ago Jen Aguirre are
Superstar now ifbb Pro congratulations
athlete she physically lifted Jared up
Darth Vader style he was hanging on to
dear life by his neck and she's like
bring Dr Mike and Scott the video I over
here to film a proper quad training
session or else and Jerry was like and I
think I made up that he was like yes and
he texted us we flew right over the
derision will take some time but we got
here and now we're here to smash Jen's
quads Jared any Revenge fantasies here
for you yeah uh what was the pull you
might throw up yes yeah we'll see what
happens okay no promises you feel good
yeah oh yeah a fun thing to cut back to
let's get to it
[Music]
warm Jen up and then we are going to get
to doing probably three or four
mile rep sets of hack spots we're going
to be slowly descending we're going to
be pausing at the bottom and we're going
to probably start the first set at
around 10 to 15.
rest a few seconds hit it again two more
times that's one set we're gonna do
three or four like that I don't think
Jen has ever done this with us she's had
it quads once at the end of a glute
workout let's hit the great music Scott
the video guy it gets hack spots going
[Music]
one more come on go control control
there too
slow up power
oh beautiful this device
has three purposes
the first purpose is for when you don't
have blocks to put down on a hack spot
to make it an appropriate range of
motion thanks not unless you guys are
doing great work just kidding it's a
great machine but could be lower or I
guess we could be taller in any case one
thing we can do we're doing John today
this is per Mr Jan feather we put this
here and her shoulders push into this
it's nice and solid and it's comfortable
enough for the neck seems to work
extends the range of motion by about
what four or five inches whatever that
is I'm not used to measurements that
large my own personal life the other
thing you can use this for I think is to
pick it up and to look at your friends
and go hey
and the last thing a minimum uh kind of
like uh third hand design element it
wasn't even really designed for this is
something to do with yoga something with
yoga but I'm not sure why in any case
hack squats okay pushing off your knees
bullshit anymore I'll push off my knees
I've seen it in almost every Leg video
you've never slow
[Applause]
big pause
up
rest read nobody said rack we're resting
how you think you're gone but there are
a few ways you can actually increase
your range of motion without using
something like that because it does seem
a little unstable yoga blocks who are
looking for those those little yoga
blocks or you can stack plates or blocks
on the foot part and that'll increase
range of motion too this this works for
us for today
but the yoga blocks might be a little
better you put them on each shoulder up
against this thing you can even tie them
around
or the foot at Mike's gym you guys have
seen he has like actual pads that he can
place there and kind of tape around so
this works though this is good
again slow
control control
up
one more come on go
control
there too slow
up power wrap oh
what's up
that was amazing good I loved it good
that was all dry that's literally how I
recounted my last sexual experience to
the to the word it sucked it was amazing
my mouth was dry
[Laughter]
oh it's good when it's dry right
I'm already one of you you're not ready
so relax yeah just breathe it out okay
Jen is a woman of Fury and Valor and
this is a sword by the way
uh and she's says she's ready right away
but we noticed that she is still
breathing quite heavily which tells us
that her cardiovascular abilities will
limit her abilities in the next set
which means she's not ready we have to
make sure she's
fresh enough in the Target muscle the
quest to get at least five more reps
that she's already been for quite a
while want to make sure the
cardiovascular ability is not limiting
so breathing has to return roughly to
normal we have to make sure that she
feels strong and ready to go she already
does so that's a check mark and also you
have to make sure that the synergists
are not limiting it's your lower back
feeling okay and everything good all
right so we checked all the boxes when
she breathes a little bit more normally
which she's probably pretending she's
doing now and she's gonna hyperventilate
soon uh then we'll get back to it
[Music]
up stand up
whenever you're ready too there is no
rush there is no rush there's no test
there's no evaluation nobody's judging
you you go when you need to go I'm ready
let's do it okay hit it too slow
yes deep up
back down
pull it right here pull right here fuck
yeah
up
breathe rest we'll do one more okay
we'll do one more
you did amazing you're gonna finish up
strong here okay at the bottom okay get
your feet lower a little bit get your
feet lower not ready feet lower all you
slow begin okay let's go jump hit it
okay show the channel what's up
let's go right here and all the way to
the bottom flow flow lower lower up yes
go go
we got a live one
good stuff
I know they look real huge what the fuck
are you that's what she said
oh
gee whiz she had more than one friend oh
boy oh God good job that lady had needs
oh it sucks one more four sets of squats
I guess
Maya you're talking about the clowns
three sets of squats see the issue with
this kind of stuff is when people aren't
used to those end ranges of motion like
that did you see how she was shaking
yeah that's a damn good sign that she's
just gonna overreach after this very
perturbed so yeah she's not used to that
at all yeah so there's a lot of fucking
damage incurring at the bottom there do
we just want to like give a rabbit
fucker you know right that's what I'm
saying we're probably a bad idea we're
like pretty big on YouTube it just
doesn't matter
talk to our lawyers
all right so uh we're done here yeah
or or one one high rep set here you want
to do a high rep set here and then I
just I wouldn't do four sets of squats
yeah okay yeah two or two to three yeah
okay
and that's how volume happens
all right let's get this off and just uh
adjust a plate if you guys have ever
come back from a deload or a long off
period
and you notice your Technique during
that time is really shaky and weird
um notice that the she's a very well
trained individual clearly but notice
when she's getting into the hole and
we're telling her to control that last
part I've seen her train she doesn't
normally go this deep and stuff or
control that you can shook that well
notice how she's having that similar oh
I'm new to the stimulus type of shaking
going on that's actually a physiological
thing that occurs in
very eccentrically damaging exercises
like straight leg deadlifts any other
hip hinges when you're not used to those
deep stretches you'll get those shakes
the shakes you guys have seen that
happen so if she was hack squatting her
regular weight which I've seen her do
like 405 and she tried to get in that
position a high chance of an injury so
if you guys want to mitigate injury
lower the load really control that last
part of The Eccentric mic was talking
about and you'll probably be good to go
and then you can progress from there so
one you're going to recruit way more
motor units you're going to have bigger
quads and you're going to mitigate the
risk of injury so it's all around wins
look up up gen down no bullshit you get
a rest after this slow control control
yes stand up yes breathe rest two and
you're done
don't bullshit your time to rest
grab the bar let's go let's go slow each
one quality right here left pull right
here slow right here slow attention on
the quad up yes down come on slow slow
slow slow slow
weight up up go go go round oh oh yeah
huh
[Applause]
[Music]
yeah okay that was good good job I'm
good I'm good oh god oh
Jen I would help you up but it's uh
better for YouTube if you try to do this
by yourself
oh I'm sorry a little uh snot in the
nose there we're gonna go do the uh
regular swatch
she's fine
I'm not moving until I could see him
what was that four sets four sets fuck
you that was like 9 900 sets
[Music]
the point that shows out just a Chad
more and I'm make sure your hips are in
so your knees should be in line with
that toe so point this toe out just a
tad more there you go no really keep
your hips open it's going to help your
lower back at the bottom
now she's doing squats High bar squats
with uh one of those elevation heel
thingies really great technique the
focus here is to keep the chest up so
that when you're standing up you push
through the chest which really means
you're pushing through the quads if you
start to push your chest down you can
get more leverage with your posterior
chain it's a lot of glutes it's a great
thing for lifting more weight but not
ideal for the best stimulus to fatigue
ratio for the quads and bonus round
because your quads are so pre-cooked
really fully cooked from the Hat squats
she needs to use a minimum amount of
weight here thus the amount of loading
through her back the amount of
stabilization she has to do is very
small it's 65 pounds she squatted you
know two plates and stuff before the
depth this is the kind of squash that
you do once your legs are already cooked
that means the stimulus fatigue ratio on
them is going to be unbelievable it's
all quads all quads all quads
essentially she's so pre-cooked for hack
squats this is the ultimate High sfr
squat exercise for for quads you just
don't need to do a lot of it to really
put that cherry on top and the Cherry
unfortunately happens to be pain
flavored chest up leave your chest up
oh crap
laughs
slow
yes
yes gonna get there June I'm right here
stop
slow slow
eight two more huh
slow your chest good chest your chest
and leave the quads
this is the last set of the day descend
slowly as if hands forward like this
slow
pause
up
oh yeah one more gen slow descent
wait
up quartz
good one more Jen one more Jen stand up
Jen stand up your athletic gal
what
don't chew your butt back first up
that's it yep that's it that's it
oh amazing amazing amazing amazing she
did it
Jen great job when you failed keeping it
in the quads okay so most people no most
people will modify their technique and
then fucker the best last episode
you never compromise your Technique
first of all second of all this may be
the most pathetic anyone's ever looked
at the gym
fuck you fuck you do something about it
fuck you do something go ahead take off
and run
okay shut up I'm getting up
okay oh my God remember the first video
we did with her when she was like I
don't sit between such all right I'm not
sitting down why not because I just
don't do that I do and then I sat for a
second and then I got up
Jen that was a classic Jammy Geary level
of effort we expected nothing less we
got nothing less you're amazing you're a
superhero Jared any thoughts yeah just
because I want to make this outro even
longer she's literally building the
tablets as she's standing here and she's
really having a hard time like she's
getting more and more lactic acid burn
the more we talk so hey Jen what kind of
like hobbies are you into whatever it is
your YouTube channel Jen has her own
YouTube go check her out check her out
on Instagram this is how real training
works yeah Jen you've been amazing we'll
have you back soon for another muscle
group
phenomenal see you guys next time
hold on
I hate you
[Music]