there are two reasons why most people
cut their depth on the leg press that
explain most of the variants of why they
do it reason number one the lower you go
the fucking more hurts your quads you're
like oh fuck oh fuck wait hold on wait
it just hurts more the lower I go I
don't want any of this pain I'll just go
halfway down and the other reason is
it's fucking humbling because if you go
to online press you can't use fucking
eight plates and can't link at that girl
in the other fucking machine if I can do
this eight plates for the partial ROM
what do you think I can do to you girls
yeah clearly I get laid a lot with lines
like that but I'm not doing that shit
which is why first of all I don't get
laid I never speak to women at the gym
or anyone for that matter and also I'm
trying to get fucking in the pain Zone
and get humbled because that's where the
fucking growth happens more