what's going on guys sean nalewanyj on
Elcom real science athletics calm and in
this video today i want to talk about
the fact that if you're someone who
regularly watches youtube fitness videos
and follows fitness related content on
social media platforms like Instagram
chances are that you're probably in
quite a bit better shape than you
realize
now being in good shape is obviously a
subjective term so I'm more so just
offering you my own perspective on this
but what I think a lot of people forget
especially beginners but even more
advanced trainings fall into this as
well myself included we forget that the
online fitness community and the real
everyday world are two pretty different
things and if your mind is constantly
absorbed into this online fitness world
you're actually getting kind of a warped
perception of your own physique and how
it fits into the overall grand scheme of
things
okay the reality is this if you're a guy
who is somewhere around let's say the
mid-teens body fat wise body fat
percentage wise give or take and you've
been weight training properly and
consistently to the point where you have
some decent muscle mass on your frame
and to where it's obvious that you lift
and to where if you took your shirt off
you know the average person would look
at you and consider you to be in pretty
good shape then in terms of physique
aesthetics you're already way ahead of
the curve just from that alone and it
probably puts you in the top I would say
1 to 3% straightaway depending on your
exact condition so if you took a hundred
random guys off the street in your age
category and you put them in a room if
you're a dude who eats well and lives
consistently and has a body fat
percentage around the mid-teens you'd
probably be either number one two or
three at the very worst out of all those
guys again in terms of what we would
consider traditional physique aesthetics
which is pretty pretty good if you
really think about it I mean if you were
in the top 1 to 3 percent of wage
earners you'd probably consider that to
be pretty impressive or top 1 to 3
percent in pretty much any area but the
issue is that with the online fitness
community the people who end up getting
the most attention and the most
followers are not the people in the top
1 to 3 percent it's literally the guys
and girls with some of the best
physiques in the world and if not the
best in the world there's still people
on the very far end of the bell curve
with
top-tier genetics and you're just seeing
this over and over and over again in
your feed from all these different
people and so you start thinking that
that's normal and then you're comparing
yourself to that which again is giving
you a skewed idea as to how you actually
look and then this gets even more
confusing because the people you're
looking at are also typically running
businesses of some sort and are kind of
you know competing with each other for
attention and usually their ego is on
the line to some degree as well and so
they always want to put their best self
forward so the videos and images you're
seeing of these people are usually fully
optimized versions that make them look
as good as possible in terms of you know
the lighting and the angles and flexing
and pumps and these kinds of things so
you're often taking top-tier genetics
and then enhancing it even further
through these various methods and I
understand this because if you're a
fitness content creator like myself
there's literally millions of other
people out there putting out content as
well and so you need to put your best
self forward if you want to get any real
attention you know I post optimized
flexing pictures and things like that on
my Instagram too because it's just kind
of part of the whole deal if you want
people to follow what you're doing so
that you can get your message across but
it's just important to be aware of this
and be aware of the fact that this isn't
how people look when they're just
walking around in everyday clothes and I
do make sure to continually mention this
throughout my content as well so that
people have a realistic idea of things
because if you don't have it this to
your audience then what you end up with
are a whole bunch of people following
you who actually look great relative to
the general population who the average
person would look at and be pretty
impressed by but who are then convinced
that they look like crap or at least
that they're just mediocre because
they're not matching up to all these
people that they've subscribed to online
you know you can't just stand there and
look in the mirror relax under some
random lighting and compare what you see
there against a set of Instagram photos
because it's just not a reasonable
comparison without taking all these
other factors into account and I'm of
course not saying that you shouldn't
strive for improvement and maximize your
own potential in this area if that's
something that you're wanting to do but
I do think that along the way just for
the sake of your own happiness and
mental well-being and to make the
process more enjoyable it's very
important to keep things in perspective
and to not take for granted what you've
actually achieved also keep in mind that
the average person out there on the
street
they're not looking at this stuff in the
same
you are not that this is all about what
other people think but my point is just
that other people who aren't spending
all their time on YouTube Fitness or
Instagram Fitness they're not holding
you to the same standards that you're
holding yourself to to them as long as
you're in pretty decent shape you know
you've got some good defined muscle a
relatively lean body fat they probably
think you look really good physique wise
and are probably envious of how you look
even if you don't think you look that
impressive you know they're probably
looking at you in the same way that you
look at these other guys and girls out
there with the really top-tier physiques
so the bottom line here is to remember
that health and fitness is something you
should be doing to enrich your life as a
whole and to make it better and if it's
just becoming a source of stress and
comparision anxiety then I'd say you're
ultimately doing it wrong and you
probably want to make some shifts in
your mindset and in the way that you are
approaching things so that means
comparing yourself not just the people
who are ahead of you and quote-unquote
doing better but also being aware that a
lot of what you see online isn't
realistic in the actual everyday world
and also making sure that if you are
going to compare yourself make sure to
do it as well with the general
population at large because that will
give you a much more accurate picture of
things and help you to see that you
probably are doing a lot better than you
give yourself credit for so I'll leave
it there guys I hope this advice was
helpful if it was make sure to hit that
like button leave a comment down below
and subscribe to stay up-to-date on
future videos make sure you're following
me over on Instagram as well for more
daily content and other updates it's at
Sean underscore nalle' wani
and the official web sites are over at
Sean now calm and real science athletics
calm the links for that are in the
description box thanks for watching guys
and I'll see you in the next video
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]