[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization I'm doing a recipe today
from my most recent cookbook big flavor
zero fat so this is a nonfat recipe and
it is a pizza concept with like a
Mexican Flair so let's dive right in
we're gonna make our crust so we've got
ground beef and you guys know with the
RP templates it's always 90 percent or
better lean ground beef that you want to
use so I've got my ground beef here some
liquid egg whites gonna help bind it
together this is where if you at home
don't have any issues with dairy use
shredded parm that's gonna be a really
good flavor for this it's gonna add a
little bit of fat of course but I
because I can't have dairy I use
nutritional yeast and it sort of has
that same like salty cheesy impact on
food so I use that a lot this is like a
mrs. dash Chipotle Southwest seasoning
you know me and mrs. dash go way back my
family loves mrs. dash so we have a lot
of different ones and this just kind of
gives it like a little bit of a like a
Southwestern flair to it and then some
coarse salt and some garlic powder we're
just gonna mix this together really well
I think we're ready so I've got a pizza
pan with a sheet of parchment paper on
top I'm just gonna dump this out on here
I'm just Pat this down wet your hands if
you want to that'll help you to spray
your hands with spray it with like
cooking spray that'll also work now this
is gonna do some crazy things you've got
to be a little bit careful with this
recipe hot grease which is certainly
even at a 90 percent lean you're gonna
have grease that's gonna come off this
in the oven around the sides
you're gonna leave some room
around the edge of the crust in the pan
for that grease to collect but that's
how it's gonna look when it's done I'm
gonna pop this in the oven now we're
gonna make our topping our sauce for our
meats up so this is just refried pinto
beans you have a different you like
black beans if you like any other kind
of bean that you want to use instead
totally cool
this is enchilada sauce you can make
your own which is always best because
the ones in the grocery store a lot of
them have added sugars that you just
totally don't need but if you look hard
enough like I know I've found it at
Whole Foods they have enchilada sauce
that does not have added sugar all right
so let's pull our crust out of the oven
and again like I said very carefully
there's grease over on the outside so
what you want to do is and I typically
do this over the sink but I'm gonna do
it here so I can really show you guys so
you can see it and I have like a heat
proof Bowl here ready but what you want
to do is hold on to the parchment so
you're not gonna lose anything and just
pour that off as carefully as you can
wearing oven mitts and all that till
don't tilt it up too much because it
will slide on you try to tilt off what
you can into a bowl you don't have to
get it all and then the rest you can
either press with paper towels or you
can use these which I like to do and
that way you're not getting close to
anything you don't have any chance of
burning yourself just to use tongs and
paper towels and just get all of that
grease off then we have our sauce that
we made up and got ready so we'll go
ahead and put that on it's not gonna
melt you know a whole lot or run off or
anything like that spread that on and
this is where I like to add on my
jalapenos if you're gonna use those so
that they get heated up these are the
jar ones like the canned ones
um fresh
- so we got this ready pop it back in
the oven for like four or five minutes
just heat the sauce the beans through so
this is where your personal tastes come
into play so I've got some salsa here no
sugar added just veggies salsa got some
chopped green onions I've got nonfat
sour cream I've got some chopped
tomatoes I love lettuce shreds on this I
like to put it on the top after I put
all my my good toppings on and then I
like to do the toppings
they'll lettuce on the top so it's
whatever you and your family like the
cool thing is - sometimes with my family
we will go ahead and cut our pieces now
put them on the plate and then everybody
goes through like a little taco bar and
does their own toppings
that's also a really good way to do it
so however you want to do it but I'm
gonna go ahead and do what I like
[Music]