[Music]
hey guys dr. Mike Isabel here for
Renaissance plus today's topic is going
to be training staleness what does
training stainless is that when your
training goes bad you have to throw it
away kind of similar so here's the deal
in sports science training staleness
is basically when you have a fundamental
boredom with your current training
alright so how does this present
sometimes trainings boring is it always
stay honest not really first of all has
to be recurrent so it's not one bad
session it's not one-off session it's
kind of like Monday you come in and
things aren't feeling so great your
workouts might go well but you just kind
of don't want to be there Tuesday you
kind of don't want to be there you're
not super excited about your training
anymore you might have lost a little bit
of that long-term vision you might be
asking yourself questions like why am I
here like what's the purpose of training
anyway now we all get these kind of
thoughts during really high intensity
high volume work when things are really
hard you might have doubts question like
okay what I really want to do another
set of 10 on the squad I feel like
throwing up but training stillness is
differentiated from just really really
hard work in times of emotional weakness
by the fact that you might be warming up
for the squad or doing down sets or
something that even difficult and you
just have this overwhelming feeling why
am I here right and one of the biggest
signs that it's for sure training
stainless is it even if PRS are
occurring you're hitting personal bests
or hitting personal records you still
kind of want to be there right because
usually when you're hitting PRS and
everything is golden it's all gravy you
come in you don't all-time max in a
squat and oh my god this is amazing and
you can't wait to train again real
training stainless is well you might
even be hitting PRS you get a really
good squat best workout of all time and
your training partner go my god that was
awesome you're kind of like yeah it's
cool and you really just don't feel
inside that you're super excited about
training anymore and you may very well
be on the extreme training stainless
where you might just not want to train
at all anyway you don't have these
doubts about you know why am I even
doing this whole sport it's Saturday and
this is the kind of thing again that
doesn't happen over a training session
it happens over several training
sessions and usually if you really know
when it's happening it's occurring over
start
weeks when and to who does this happen
well so we don't really have a term for
training stainless for beginners because
when you're a beginner and things can't
go stale for you yet
when beginners have trouble with
motivation that's really and we cover
this in another rp+ lecture that's
really a kind of a motivation
inspiration problem you haven't caught
the drift yet training statelessness is
something that is reserved for people
for whom training is already habitual
it's already habit it's already big part
of their life when it so you were more
advanced athlete you've been doing your
sport you've been doing your
recreational activities for a while
months years and then you start to kind
of burn out that's training stainless
it's not like oh you know my training
partner who just started training and
been training for two weeks and then he
got bored that's not really stay on this
that's just a lack of inspiration to
begin with right
so the most common way people get into
that and there are kind of more
overarching things like I don't like the
sport to begin with that's a bit more of
a different concern but usually it's by
taking a certain exercise selection
approach to training like I'd say doing
sets of 10 in a particular arrangement
of exercises or training for hypertrophy
and basically going for more than four
to six months in that pattern so in the
first two or three months of training
for strength of her endurance affright
per trophy or a new selection of
exercises things are generally pretty
exciting
you hit good PR is you might have to hit
them either way but things are new and
they feel fresh after about three months
four months five months six months if
the same kind of training is a current I
mean down to the rep range exercise
selection intensity variations if that's
what's happening you might find yourself
in a more high likelihood of a sort of
incurring it into the zone of training
stainless ever is a Groundhog Day every
day starts to feel the same and that can
cause some problems first problem is
kind of more of a philosophical problem
almost everyone in the United States and
generally in advanced countries today or
wherever you are on the world listening
to this you don't train for a job right
and even if you're an athlete you don't
have to be an athlete right
you can be training for the Olympics but
how much money is that paying you you're
probably living it you know pretty
pretty low means training for the
Olympics and it's because you want to
Train like that right so fundamentally
why do we train what's because we like
to Train and and if it trainings not fun
anymore if it literally feels like a day
job like a grind at the office why are
we there
right well that that's a issue number
one so before we get into the the
adaptation and the sort of training
demand problems you gotta ask yourself
if trainings consistently very stale why
am i training because we started all
this to be fun anyway right that's why
we train aside from that let's say
fundamentally you're still having fun in
your training and the goal is still in
sight or maybe you're really high level
athlete and the fun part is like okay
but this is my job so it's kind of you
obviating fun to begin with what are
some problems well when you're training
a state you're going to have trouble
training as hard as you need to to make
your best adaptations so when you have
really really stale training you're less
likely to get amped up enough to make
the big jumps and wait in speed and
endurance and PRS
that really make the overload the best
that's a big problem remember especially
if you're advanced you only really get
better through hard training anyway
right and if you have a problem with
summoning the sufficient intensity you
literally walk up to the squat bar and
your first thought isn't I'm gonna kill
this your first thought is squats again
okay that's a bad deal right and you
don't want to be in that position per se
second of all let's say you can summon
the intensity necessary to make
adaptations you might find yourself in a
position and I think when I say this a
lot of this is gonna resonate with you
guys you might have been in the
situation before your ability to do the
total work required can decrease right
so what I mean by that that means if
your training is pretty stale you might
be able to get through your hard primary
sets your first four sets of six reps or
something like that you hit them good
everything's fine but after you have to
do your down sets and we know that
volume is critical to adaptations down
sets are important you have to finish
your workouts do all the volume to get
all the gains
you might still be okay doing the
primary work but can you get into your
secondary work and you're like yeah you
know it says my sheet says three sets of
eight if stiff like a deadlift uh oh god
is so monotonous I'm gonna do two sets
of six bit heavier bit make it a bit
more exciting right if you ever altered
your own training just to make it more
exciting in the moment and they'll call
it quits now it's good to have training
that's exciting but training has to
follow a plan if you're periodized plan
if the objective is to hit four sets of
eight two sets of six even though it's
hard training is that in the same
direction as you want it's insufficient
volume and perhaps doesn't contribute as
much to muscle growth it's more of a
strength exercise and it might not get
you what you're looking after so a lot
of people can still train very hard when
their training gets stale but they have
a really hard time completing all the
necessary work so basically as they get
tired they have a training session
they're more likely to cut some things
off and be like man do I really need to
do cable flyes today I have some really
good precedent hey I hit a couple of PRS
I'm just gonna go home I'm just gonna
shut it down that's a problem because
well it's not a problem right there and
then in the session it doesn't build a
foundation in the framework for more
results later down the line
lastly probably the most extreme example
of training stainless short of just
walking away and quitting is replacing
exercises altogether and a lot of times
stillness is exercise specific you're
just so tired of high bar squats you're
so tired of stiff legged deadlifts that
you would do anything else to not do
them and you might be very well
motivated by training still but it's the
exercises themselves ever gotten so
stale on you that particular movement
pattern is just annoying right
everything feels all wrong it's a you
hate it you don't want to do it so a lot
of times individuals will have you know
four sets of eight stiff legged Eveleth
planned and they'll go and combine the
two so they'll do a lower intensity
lower volume and they'll switch our
exercises all together so what I mean by
that they'll do two sets of five of
glute-ham raises so good ham raises may
very well be a good hamstring exercise
but if you randomly do exercises here
and there you violate other principles
of specificity particularly directed an
apt ation because the reason you chose
your exercises where they had a
particular purpose in your plan just
something out exercises here and there
isn't the most optimal way to train and
if you're doing it because you plan to
the variation that
perfect but if you're simply bored and
you want to do something else just
because you understand now that you are
trading off the efficiency of your
program for an enhanced level of
entertainment not the best scenario all
right so it's not that stainless is one
of those things you just have to work
through it brother
you present some serious challenges so
let's learn a little bit more about it
right
okay so training stainless is a real
thing what causes training staleness
there's two fundamental potential causes
and one of them can actually influence
the other though not the other way
around
so first cause is literally a physical
cause it's a physiological cause it's
not initially psychological but it
spills over it's accumulated fatigue
right so if you continue to Train
SuperDuper hard and your training starts
to exceed your ability to recover your
level of accumulated fatigue starts to
really rise as your cumulative fatigue
gets high enough and this has been
demonstrated very clearly in
overreaching and overtraining literature
and sport science what ends up happening
is your physiology gets dampened and
depressed your ability to adapt gets
dampen and impressed your ability to
perform get stabbed and depressed you
start getting hurt more and there's
always a predictable effect on
psychology and training stainless is one
of those effects so there's actually
they used to use a term and sometimes
people still do they'll use the term
over training and training stainless
concomitant Lee believe you the terms
together were to replace each other
because it's that closely tied so
basically one of the most reliable
indicators that you're over reached that
you've gone further than you can recover
from that your accumulative fatigue is
too high
is that training stainless results
psychologically so you know someone's in
a bad situation with too much fatigue
when one of the symptoms is that our
eyes don't even want to come in and
train I'd rather do something else or my
train I don't want to stick to the plan
so it's possible that there's a literal
physical cause prohibit more detail if
you alleviate the physical symptoms in
your reduce the fatigue a lot of times
in psychology comes rushing back so you
thought you were just hated exercise but
it turns out you were so beat up that's
why I hated it and as soon as we
alleviate the fatigue you're back to
just doing your thing and you love
training again however there is a second
reason for training stainless system or
obviously direct one is just
psychological boredom right and that can
occur even in low fatigue
States you don't have to be beat up you
can be in a really low fatigue state and
just be literally bored with your
training there's a couple of potential
reasons for that right one of them is
your ability or just so sort of the
chances or the occurrences of PRS gets
fewer and further between if you're
doing a particularly low volume training
phase or a low volume training block
maybe to recover for something or if
you're working on an ability that you're
just not very good at and it's very
difficult for you to progress there that
lack of PRS can create training
staleness because there's nothing
exciting to look forward to an example
of this is if you're really attached to
being stronger and faster and fitter in
a number sense and performance and you
have to do a fat loss diet well towards
the end of the fat loss diet you're
going to be hitting all kinds of PRS in
your appearance but you might not be
getting PRS in your performance because
you're low on fuel or glycogen your high
and fatigue that can really do training
stainless because you literally kind of
forget while you're in the gym someone's
like hey how's your back squat coming up
and you're like I don't remember the
last time I hit a PR on the back squat
and they're like oh that kind of sucks
and you're like yeah I know and all of a
sudden your trainings really still you
come in and you're like I know I have to
train today to keep my muscle on my body
while I lose this fat but because you're
not in PRS it's real tough to get
motivated that sort of thing and
training styles can arise now mind you
it's not because you're in a high
fatigue State is because you haven't hit
PRS in a long time a lot of people who
are really PR driven which is totally
cool have some problems when they're not
getting better all the time or at least
some of the time phases in which they
have to back off from getting better and
work on other things like fat loss can
be really hard for them and can create a
lot of staleness and another one
probably the most common is just a sheer
amount of time spent in the same current
training modalities so for example if
you just hive our squad for months and
months and months and you do a lot of
the same rep ranges especially sets of
ten and eight for months and months and
months you can get so sick of high bar
squatting for sets of 10 and eight that
that is what causes training stainless
it's the same kind of training right
this can be expanded we'll talk about
this in just a little bit even to an
entire sport now that's more rare but
you could be so sick of doing squats
bench presses and deadlifts that you
want even anything else but that right
you start being like am I even a power
lifter anymore why am I doing this right
so
essentially we have this possibility
that the they do is the sort of causes
of stainless our physiological that it's
too much fatigue we're just purely
psychological right so we have a problem
here because we have to be able to tell
which is which right you want to solve
the problem of stainless for sure but
before you can tell where it's coming
from
you've got to make sure that you know or
sorry before you can fix it you've got
to know where it's coming from right
because we could fix the wrong thing and
and then and then still be in a really
big bind so how do we tell if our
stainless is physically mediated right
accumulated fatigue psychological or
both right so both training fatigue and
boredom just psychological boredom can
produce stainless however only fatigue
comes with the other fatigue symptoms so
we can find out if it's just
psychological boredom if the following
things that I'm going to list to you
just as a sample are not present okay so
if you have no motivation induced
performance loss okay oh sorry non
motivation News performance loss so for
example you're still amped up okay
you're still ready to go but you're just
not as strong as you used to be you're
just not as fast as you used to be your
endurance is down and you can't tell why
you're psyched up plenty it's not like
you're coming in there getting the bar
or getting on the rowing machine and
going oh leave I have to do this you're
ready to go but you're just not as good
that's a fatigue issue that's not a
boredom issue that's a sign of high
fatigue and that's probably where your
snail this is coming from low level
chronic muscle soreness is another one
that's a big sign of fatigue right if
you're always trying to beat up you're
probably overreaching your ability to
recover and it's fatigue that's causing
the stainless as well if you have a
joint aches and pains right
psychological Boreham doesn't cause
joint aches and pains that would be one
hell of a level of boredom only
accumulated fatigue can really do that
in the long term if you have that it's
probably a physiological issue and again
poor appetite problems with sleep a
deteriorating dynamic technique so one
of the early signs of overreaching when
you have way too much fatigue is
if you have really high a lot of trouble
hitting weight lifting movements and
getting under the bar or being super
technical and explosive when your
ability to do a high level of technique
and fast speed starts to degrade in
addition with some of those other
symptoms
you're probably physiologically
overreached too fatigued and that's
probably where the staleness is coming
from as well right so if none of those
symptoms are present when stainless
occurs if you feel pretty fresh
physically you don't have trouble
sleeping you're still fast and quick
then it's probably just psychological
when those states those situations are
present it's either both psychological
or physical in derivative or just
physical but that means it spills over
into the psychological as well now how
do you deal with stainless here's the
deal we have kind of a one-size-fits-all
method for or once one one-size-fits-all
method for the taking stainless and if
you're already in a position of
stainless we'll talk in just a second
about what you can do to prevent it
because you're already in a position of
stainless what can we do to mitigate it
the first thing and it's almost always a
good idea is to just take a deal owed
you may not think you're fatigued
because you may have answered some of
those questions in the the last little
chat about what signs there are as no I
don't have them but just in case because
sometimes fatigue can be masked by a
variety of other things you can still
feel kind of decent still be carrying
enough fatigue to get training stale
just take a deal owed just in case and
that works psychologically as well as
physically sometimes what you're sailing
out on is this year active trying hard
when you take a deal OBE which means a
week or so of lower volume lower
intensity training you may find yourself
reigniting the passion to Train super
hard because it turns out that you were
just training hard for so long it was
the psychological burden of having to
try that on a long time you spend a
little bit of time away from the gym you
get that fire back that desire a lot of
the world's most motivated athletes hate
D loading because at the end of it they
feel completely insane they have to
spill it out onto the platform onto the
Rings onto the track they have to try
hard and a lot of times stillness occurs
from trying aren't so long you don't
want to try hard anymore when you do a
deal owed
first of all it can clear up a lot of
fatigue which is great and also it can
help psychologically as well after your
D load it's a good idea to keep that
stainless at bay by switching exercise
selections or the arrangement of your
training which training days you come in
and train what body parts or what
modalities you can change your training
frequency change the intensity range as
opposed to lifting in sets of three to
five you could start lifting in sets of
you know ten to fifteen or something
like that your volume range work on an
entirely new priority switch that
training up make sure things are fresh
and lastly at the very extremes of
psychological stainless you might want
to try a new goal altogether what do I
mean by that in very rare situations you
may have pushed it so far in a single
sport or a single goal is that you just
don't want to do that sport of that goal
for a while and that's totally okay now
try not to have that be your first
choice try to alter your training a
little bit within that sport of that
goal first but if that doesn't work
after a couple of weeks everything's
already just too stale as ever or it
never helped to begin with you can try
this so for example if you've been
gaining strength for a while and
whatever sport you play you'll say
you're a power lifter or a crossfitter
you've been going strength strength
strength your you might be burned out on
the veer idea the very mechanisms the
very things it takes to get strong the
ways of training might have burned you
out you might be stale try a fat loss
faith right and a fat loss phase you
switch your training from strength
training to more hypertrophy training to
keep your muscle on and that new change
in your body not only can it enhance
your performance a long term but it can
really reinvigorate you and get a big
psychological and physical break from
strength training so when you're at the
end of the fat loss phase you can't wait
to lift heavy again you can't wait to
strength training again and that break
is all you needed so a fat loss phase of
several months might do the trick just
changing your training in a different
direction sometimes especially if you're
choosing related sports or if you happen
to be involved in CrossFit and you can
sure choose some emphases over others
you might go a different direction
altogether and do a different sport for
a while I've known some power lifters
for example that have tried more
CrossFit when the guy got really burnt
out on power or the other way around is
you've been training for CrossFit for a
while you might put your endurance and
high rep training on backburner for a
couple of weeks or a couple of months
training for a powerlifting meet right
train for a weightlifting meet maybe
even consider at the extreme end a
physique show or something if you're
pretty lean to begin with if you're any
of the strength sports or the power
sports or a crossfitter you can switch
and for a couple of months really train
one attribute or even try to compete in
out of the sport that can really
reinvigorate you because you'll start
missing the old stuff that was making
its tail I mean if you're a crossfitter
and you haven't done you know an
endurance workout in a long time eight
weeks the very same endurance workouts
that you used to be making you used to
make you want to quit you're now aching
for them because it's been so long so
switching your emphasis altogether might
be good idea it's better to switch
exercise selections and modalities and
all of those minor things and stick to
the same goal first because we don't
want to switch sports every all the time
it's not gonna make us much better in
the long term to do that too frequently
but if it really gets at you if it's
really stale you might consider
switching things up altogether and going
from one sport to the other last part
here okay so we know how to deal with
staleness now when it comes up but how
do we prevent stainless from recurring
because you don't want to be in a
situation where you just keep running
into walls and having to use these tips
to rearrange your program right you want
to make sure stainless doesn't really
hit in any big way at the beginning now
big caveat to what I'm gonna say
staleness is okay for about a week at a
time here are they're at your peak weeks
of every muscle cycle so the week right
before you D load you should be
overreached because that tells us you're
training hard enough to get all your
adaptations and it sets us up for
functional overreaching that super
compensation effective training they
make you really much better can only
occur we've really beat yourself up
training should be a little stale in
those last weeks because if training
isn't a little stale on those last weeks
you're probably not training hard enough
and remember you always have a deal owed
after them to completely wipe that away
but if training stainless is occurring
more than in just the last week you have
a problem how do we avoid that problem
to begin with first of all follow a
periodized phasic plan to begin with you
want a logical phasic approach to your
training right that
means that every several months your
shift you shift focus so for my per
trophy just strength to power or work
capacity to hypertrophy and then back to
work capacity from an emphasis on doing
gymnastics movements to weight lifting
movements to power movements and so on
and so forth
putting things on the back burner
putting things to the front and in a
logical phasic manner that is proper
training design and one of the reasons
it works so beautifully is of course the
physiology of it but another one of a
minor but yet good reason is the
psychology of it period is training
where you move from phase to phase the
phase keeps it fresh all the time but
the good thing is it doesn't just keep
it randomly fresh it keeps it fresh in
the direction in which you want and
there's a very big difference there you
don't want to be the kind of person that
gets bored with training every two weeks
and varies it so much they go nowhere
right but you do want to be the kind of
person that doesn't stall out all the
time I'll stainless because you're doing
the same program for 18 months so your
program should be phasic it should have
phases of distinct training that build
on each other right we'll have more
lectures for you later on periodization
on how to make that arrangement but
generally speaking you want to make sure
you go from phase two face-to-face that
allows you to not be super super beat
down with stainless yet stick to the
same end goal and keep building towards
the same thing when you are designing
your training blocks make sure your
blocks of training don't last much
longer than about four months at one
time you can have the same sets
exercises reps etc for four months at a
time and that's okay much after four
months training stainless is almost
guaranteed to arise not only that your
physiological ability to adapt is also
going to start to diminish you should at
least change some exercises or some
repetition ranges or maybe some timing
issues of frequency issues to give
yourself both a growth spurt and the
psychological help so a lot of times
people say I found the perfect program
and they run the same program and
they're like oh my god I'm so bored with
it before you get bored you should be
planning to change your program at
various intervals three to four months
on average to make sure that you're both
progressing physiologically and not
getting too stale lastly you want to
make sure the psychological alignment in
your own head with your training is
fundamentally sound what does that mean
remember why you're training it's to
have fun is to increase the
vivaciousness of your life it is to make
you a happier person a healthier person
a stronger person a fitter person
imagine training as a supermarket
shopping spree that is given to you for
free and you're just grabbing up as many
tasty items off the shelf and putting
them into your cart that's what training
is it's an opportunity to gain to
improve if you start to see training as
more of a job as a mandate as a
requirement as drudgery there's no way
you're gonna be able to avoid stainless
but if you come into training and every
now and again psychologically realign
yourself to make sure you're focusing on
the idea that training is fun and
productive this can be expanded to your
day job if you're at your day job to
create value for yourself value for the
company to make yourself more productive
to create beautiful products and
services for other people to make them
happy the realization that you're doing
that is all the motivation you'll ever
need to never be stale but if you come
to work o'clock in 8:00 8:00 to 5:00
9:00 to 5:00 and you don't even know why
you're there it's essentially as far as
you're concerned a form of slavery at
that point you're there resisting with
every bone in your body to be there you
can hate your job training and be the
same thing yeah we all understand
fundamentally the training is
voluntarily and you know totally up for
us to do but sometimes we lose that
touch we lose sight of that
psychologically in our own heads it's a
real good idea every now and again to
come back and remember why you love
training remember what the purpose of
training is like I said it's kind of
like an oh you can grab shopping spree
there's hypertrophy here there's
strength here there's fat loss here
you're getting a ton of stuff you're
creating something every time you train
not only is the process awesome and fun
but the end goals are something you want
if you can keep that in mind
geez stainless is really hard to come by
and about that process
the last thing I'll tell you guys today
have fun in your training day-to-day and
the best way to do that was with some
awesome training partners if you have
training partners that can help you have
fun in your training day-to-day they can
watch your technique you can BS with
them between sets and make fun of each
other that's gonna be so much more fun
that
you're gonna forget the training is will
work at all you're gonna look forward to
your training and in addition to keeping
that long-term view of your training as
a productive endeavor to build something
so we got it's productive in the inside
our own psychology and our training
partners help make it fun well holy crap
productive and fun nobody is ever gonna
have to talk you out of that stainless
is gonna be something that could only
occur if you really screw up your
training design into the same stuff for
months and months and months as long as
you keep to all those training stainless
should be something that occurs only
really when you're overreaching and then
after dealer this you've got good to go
you can continue to train more or less
staleness free have your best games and
enjoy everything about training
including the rest of your life thanks
for tuning in see you guys next time