this is officially impressive 611 lb two
competition depth actually seemingly a
little bit below very few people can do
this John Cena is the Real Deal One does
not simply do something like this this
is good stuff also he's got a belt he's
got knee sleeves and most importantly
he's got weightlifting shoes
weightlifting shoes tell me you know
what you're doing it's not a guarantee
but it's a very high
probability
oh high bar full depth with what seems
to be 396 lb and he is burying that
upright chest ass all the way to ankles
head position nice and
forward he took it there under control
and back up under control kind of a
midar not high bar position I would give
that a nine out of 10 at least on squat
technique John Cena knows what the he's
doing and surprise he's gigantic