with the holiday meals the good thing is
family and friends and amazing food the
bad thing is it's real easy to over eat
and get down on yourself and feel
miserable and Bloated life is full of
all kinds of good stuff and you really
have the rest of the year or most the
rest of the year to diet like crazy and
oldest bodybuilding nonsense so I really
recommend maintenance or muscle gain
during the holidays in most cases
because you can really enjoy yourself
and get a lot of life and not have to
diet through crazy stuff like look if
you know you're peeking for the Arnold
Classic and you're a pro bodybuilder if
you're a competitor you're going to die
through the holidays that sucks but
you're also a professional athlete
that's what you do for the rest of us I
think it's probably a good idea to take
the holidays and uh and be easy if you
feel like you have to die through well
I'm a physique athlete this is what I do
most the rest of the year you can get it
all done and still have that huge
combination of success in your physique
and feeling great about yourself and
also eating tons of delicious holiday
foods and God there are so many can you
guys tell I'm dieting right now