so this is kind of like a Milo sarv
style kind of marathon set where you
just do one set after one set after one
set we just walk in machine to machine
interesting way to train excellent as
far as saving time it's really fun is it
maximum hypertrophy probably not
especially between sets of legs you need
plenty of rest I'd say a few minutes
especially until your breathing is
pretty much normal again and you feel
really really strong it's unlikely The
Rock can check either one of those boxes
just going straight over taking longer
rest times doing straight sets of
whatever machine you're doing then
moving on to the next is probably
Superior here's another thing these
machines largely Target the same
musculature so what I would say is get
you a regular Arsenal leg press not the
one foot at a time do five or six
sets of 10 to 20 reps on that maybe with
some High Reps paused in there in
between your quads are cooked for the
rest of the week or half week do some
hamstring stuff and then you're
golden there's no reason to do this much
variation unless it's just for for
funsies for lulls