the frame Remains The ancestral tenants
these are the forces required in the
modern world to heal be healthy strong
and
dominate all of the things that are
coming to mind right now are violence me
doing violence to liver King come try
dominate me I'll represent
modernity you can represent Antiquity to
keep things real you're not allowed to
use steroids you're not allowed to lift
weights you're not allowed to have a
diet higher than about 1,800 calories
because that was typical of ancestral
times and you better not be getting
nearly sufficient amounts of protein to
build much muscle because that was damn
near never available and you got to come
in with a couple tooth infections
injuries and fractures that never healed
right that's how we all lived back in
the day by the way me on the other hand
to get all the best of maternity healing
and comfort and food and the best
training and all the drugs I can take
and actually MMA training let's take a
shot at the title together liver King
what do you
say