doter pack here ranking the coolest
exercises that you can do in the gym as
a
lifter Effectiveness who cares
loadability and stability and all that
other BS that people keep paring these
days it's all about looking cool looking
like a beast and this is exactly what
we're going to rank these exercises
based off on obviously there's
absolutely no criteria it's just me ADHD
myself through each exercise and ranking
it using the classic tier phone in my
hand making a phone goal yes Rascal
apparel is what I'm wearing sure 10% off
with do pack code yeah please stop
calling my number
all right now that that's out of the way
the barbell Squad is one of those
exercises that in my opinion is quite
cool assuming you can perform it well
assuming you are lifting a relatively
solid weight for commercial gym
standards so three plus plates and you
can take it as to grasp while keeping
your torso relatively upright the squad
is one of those exercises that can turn
heads and are relatively cool however
it's still an exerise for your legs and
legs who trains those people that are
not genetically BL like myself who can
get away with a few heavy squads and
deadlifts per week but for the reason
that H it's leg training AKA cringe I
will put the squad in the B tier I think
a goodlooking squad is impressive and
cool but in order for it to be in the a
or S tier you have to be squatting a
[ __ ] ton of weight with an exercise
technique that is only possible if
you're made to Squad it would be unfair
to say it's one of the coolest exercises
because many people out there are not
going to be able to make it look cool
and it just looks awkward they're using
just a few plates and nobody cares so B
tier for the squad moving on though to
the leg press now the leg press I'd
argue it's one of the lamest exercises
you can do it's one of those exercises
that are notoriously known uh for being
egift exercises that people absolutely
butcher so your strength on a leg press
doesn't mean anything sure if you're
Eddie Hall who did I think like 1,000
kilos or some joke okay that turned
heads but overall nobody cares how much
you leg press nobody's impressed by your
leg press you can obviously make it a
deep leg press and that's somewhat oh
look you know brownie points from other
lifter uh sort of deal but overall yeah
leg press smack press and it's a leg
exercise cringe we'll put that in the D
tier so yeah I wouldn't really uh
consider that like first anything great
moving on to deadlifts and now we're
going to talk about specifically a
conventional deadlift deadlifts are IMO
much like squats in order for them to
look cool you have to be deadlifting a
ton of weight and you have to make them
look good so there are out there that
are not blessed with their build and
their deadlifts will never look
aesthetically pleasing and vice versa
right obviously then you have deadlift
Specialists who make it look super
efficient super easy their back is
straight not that that's necessarily a
good or bad thing from an injury
standpoint it just looks proper the same
with the squad so I am going to put
deadlifts in the B tier cuz if you see a
looking deadlift sure it's cool but the
weight on the bar really determines
whether a deadlift looks cool to you or
not and whether it actually establishes
dominance moving on though we have leg
extensions Milo is next door I would
call him to give his opinion but I will
give my opinion on the leg extensions by
[Music]
just and that's my opinion on the leg
extensions worst exercise ever in terms
of coolness absolute disgrace of an
exercise arguably one of the worst
things you can do in your life F de
definitely F the worst exercise in terms
of coolness leg curls on the other hand
slightly different you're training
hamstrings who trains
hamstrings H I'd put it in the eat TI
moving on to the split Squad and more
specifically the deficit split Squad now
hear me out hate split squads never
doing split squads I get a lot of people
to do split squads though cuz they're
are really dope exercise for hypertrophy
for quads for gluten and just awesome
exercise overall from an Effectiveness
standpoint absolute killer though
however they are known to be a killer
exercise which gives the people an
impression that hey that guy there or a
girl is a freak he's doing deficit split
squads good close to failure absolutely
dying after each said so you're
immediately the guy or the girl for
those that know and that's the
limitation there those that don't know
look at you see that you're doing
something on a bench with your legs and
stop looking at you so immediately takes
away a lot of cool points cuz it doesn't
have that wo effect that a very heavy
deadlift can have for even the mere
mortals but then you get some of the
points back because split squats can
look hard regardless of what weight you
use therefore we are going to put them
in the seat here in terms of coolness
moving on to the upper body and namely
the bench the king of all exercises I am
personally not a huge fan I think it's a
relatively cool exercise but overall
it's such an overplayed and common
exercise that everybody does and you see
so much of that again it's it's not that
cool it's if you're benching in LW and
so on and so forth but at the same time
I do think that most people just regard
it as a standard exercise it's
everybody's chest exercise it's not one
of those exercises that are
necessarily wo super cool or whatever so
I'm going to put it as a seat
here the overhead press now that's a
cool exercise completely biased here but
hear me out overhead press with a barble
strict overhead press unless you insane
mainly weak it's one of those exercises
that you don't see that often requires a
bit of extra technical work when it gets
grindy it gets super super impressive if
you're here shaking and you're actively
trying to press a weight plus because
you're standing and you're lifting
something above your head the whole gym
depending on the gym structure but
you're much more exposed than if you're
grinding a rep on the bench BR real
signs here the fact that it's not a
common exercise It's relatively hard
when you go close to failure and it
requires some technical proficiency
where you can all just slam the bar in
your chest and get that last rep but you
need to stay there and just grind it out
and shake and push your head forward to
lock out the rep I think the overhead
press is rightly going to be placed in
the a TI moving on still upper body
we're going to do the power cleans now
the power cleans are one of the those
exercises that I don't do I don't
usually see but I think it's a damn cool
exercise to see when done properly and
especially when done by a strong
individual so I'm going to put it also
in the a tier alongside the overhead
press now some of the other exercises
that have been given here in my list are
push-ups table Crossovers and the pec
deck machine unfortunately I do love
push-ups not unfortunately but
unfortunately for push-ups I don't think
they are particularly cool looking
exercise no matter how much you
complicate it um and any sort of chest
machine exercise unless it's some
machine you've never seen before yeah
they all unfortunately go in the D to e
tier depending on the exercise because
who cares about your back deck or
whatever chest press machine or anything
like that however the dumbbell incline
press specifically when done with a
proper range of motion and a lot of
control can be quite quite impressive
and can actually be slightly more
impressive and cool than the bench press
itself I would put those in the beat
here simply because having to get in
position controlling the weight is a bit
more challenging and if you're a very
strong dumble presser I think that
that's much cooler than the equivalent
strength on a straight barble simply
because it's not as common to
see moving on to back at exercises I
think that weighted chin-ups and
pull-ups are somewhat cool to look at
but at the same time they're not turning
heads like other body weight exercises
that I'm about to mention that are not
necessarily for the back so chin-ups and
pull-ups great especially when done with
proper form but they're one of those
exercises that even like when somebody's
good at pull-ups you just see somebody
doing pull-ups when somebody's doing a
[ __ ] ton of weight and doing weighted
pull-ups that's impressive cuz they're
doing the weight but the exercise itself
does not have that oomph so i' put both
in the C category however muscleups are
one of those exercises that although
maybe just for show of purposes I would
say they are definitely s tier in terms
of coolness I cannot do a muscle up I
haven't tried I haven't learned how to
do a muscle up but I would love to be
able to do a muscle up simply to be the
heavy guy in the gym that goes and does
a muscle up without any warmup or
without any sort of reason the barble
row excellent exercise overall can look
good if you're doing a ton of weight or
if you're performing it with very strict
technique but again it's not an exercise
that is going to turn heads simply
because you're doing it however if
you're strong enough and somebody's
doing their deadlifts or rdl's with like
let's say two plates and you go and say
can I work in and they say yes and you
go like H he thinks I'm about to do
deadlift and you grab the bar and do a
set of very controlled barbell rows then
you get a lot of cool points and you
make it look cool but that's not because
of the exercise itself that's because
you are strong so overall barell Rose go
to the seat
here moving on to the lat pull down now
when it comes to lat pull Downs they're
not as cool as weighted chinups and
weighted pull-ups and overall are just
your common a common exercise that you
see people do if you want to be cool and
you want to turn heads if you had to
pick between doing a weight a chin up
where you're there taking space putting
plates on plates and making it awkward
for everybody else in the gym to see you
set up cuz they you're they're worried
that your [ __ ] belt from Amazon is
going to break in half and you you might
have issues with your you know fertility
and reproducing in the
future that's a cool way to train in the
gym now a I pull down you sit down you
adjust a seat you do your reps Happy
Days even if you use a lot of weight
unless people are specifically looking
at you while you're doing them and have
done the ex say before it can compare
the weight so for that reason the lat
pull down is going to go unfortunately
and the DTI as far as coolness I will
also add shrugs here just because
they're one of these exercises that
people think look cool and they load the
bar with a bunch of weight only for them
to move it for like couple of inches of
range of motion use up all the 45s make
our life harder nobody's impressed it's
literally the worst exercise you can do
do to look cool in the gym straight in
the F category actually e category only
the leg extensions deserve the F
category but let's move on to the bread
and butter of training AKA arm training
barble curls now hear me out if you're
able to show up at a gym go in the squad
rack grab a barble load some plates and
even not fully strict carlet but carlet
you're a boss you've taken over the gym
that's it you are the legal owner of
that gym now if you're one of those
freaks that can actually strict curl or
semi strict curl ton of weight on the
straight bar barbell curl then my
respect you are my new king So for that
reason I'm going to put the barell curls
in the B tier yes right next to the
squad and the deadlift yes I said it
this is pure science if you have
anything to say gu this please feel free
to attach your citation in your comment
below on the topic of curls cable curls
any variation of cable curl basan curls
behind the back whatever curls uh
straight bar cable curls lame absolutely
lame exercise nobody cares maximizing
hypertrophy okay nerd watch me barbell
curl your bench want to rim right here B
category every single cable curl not
cool whatsoever now for exercises like
the dumble curl even the hammer curl
even the preacher easy bar curl or any
sort of preacher curl i' put those in
the D category they're not really
impressive they're not really cool even
if you're working with an extremely
strict form ah whatever nobody
cares moving on to triceps and more
specifically dips now dips much like
chin-ups and pull-ups if you do them
weighted with a very solid range of
motion they can be pretty cool and they
can look somewhat impressive for that
reason I would put them in the seat here
because again they're not one of those
head turning exercises and on the back
of that I would not really consider the
overhead tricep extensions or the or
skull crossers super cool exercises I
would also put those in the D category
as far as overall coolness goes they're
okay exercises however the JM press
which is often used as an accessory in
powerlifting for tricep work is one of
those exercises especially again in the
commercial gym environment that is
pretty cool people are looking at you
wondering what you're about to do
whether you're benching and all of a
sudden you pull a last minute never let
them know your next move sort of 4D
chest form change where you're not doing
a bench press and you're doing something
else people are wondering what the hell
is this and you are an absolute boss
when you do the JM press in a commercial
commercial gym setting if you're strong
as well okay I mean you are again
conqueror of the gym I would put the JM
press at the a category when it comes to
coolness it's one of those exercises
that people don't see often and can be
pretty impressive even if you're not
using a ton of weight simply because of
its form and because it doesn't it looks
like a modified Ben press made harder
last but not least core exercises now
the exercises that I've listed here are
planks Russian Twists hanging leg risers
cable wood chops and Ab Roller the first
four all go in the D to e here but when
it comes to one exercise to rule them
all a well performed AB will roll out
with a p at the end I think one let the
freaks know that you're about it and let
the normies know that hey wait a second
this guy here who doesn't look that you
know mobile or whatever let's say say
you're a heavier individual I think it
can be a great look I'll put it between
the C and the B tier just because it's
not quite B tier and not quite SE here
it's a cool ab exercise and when it
comes to a bunch of other ab exercises
another potential contestant would be
kneeling uh cable crunches where you're
using the full stack and you're really
controlling each rep that can give you a
few more coolness points but you're
looking at like a c and d tier and there
you have it a bunch of random exercises
ranked by the real doctor so the next
time you want to look good in the gym
you want to ideally do exercises that
are C tier and above mostly focusing on
B to S tier exercises but try your best
to do exercises that are actually
effective ignore the silly list that I
made the majority of the exercises that
were're around for Le totally effective
don't over thing stuff and don't take
these list too seriously don't forget to
like subscribe hit the notification icon
head to my adapt.com to express your
interest for our upcoming app the most
versatile app in the world of lifting
weights up to this day code pack for 10%
off brco apparel enough with the plugs
thank you for watching see you next time
[Music]