hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization new series
begins today
fitness myths
there are many of them possibly infinity
but we're gonna take all of them down
starting with this week's video fitness
myth number one and by the way
if you have some ideas that you think
might be myths might not be myths just
throw them in the comments and if you
don't have any ideas of your own but you
scroll through and you upload some of
the ones you really want me to talk
about i'll put them in the uh the deck
and we will end up chatting about them
and making sure that we sort right from
wrong
fitness myths number one
inaugural episode for today is that you
must cut carbs to lose fat i'm sure
you've heard that before
as usual and especially in this new
series we're going to take a very
particular structure we're going to talk
about the claim itself and really kind
of break down what is the claim that's
supposedly mythical we'll talk about why
it's probably wrong or at least the big
downsides of it then we'll talk about
some grains of truth because almost
every myth has a grain of truth like
even flat earth what's the grain of
truth when you walk outside
you know what i'm saying it looks pretty
flat right so every myth has a grain of
truth and it's important to admit that
because a lot of times when you're
talking to folks in the real world and
they say well you got to cut carbs you
lose fat you can start the conversation
with hey listen i hear you there's some
good stuff going on here and they go see
you agree and you go but what about this
and they go home maybe i will actually
change my mind versus if you just tell
them the wrong just tell them they're
stupid you might get punched in the face
instead of convince anyone of anything
and then lastly after grains of truth
we'll talk about summing it all up and
what are the actual best practices in
this regard
so if there's a myth about range of
motion i won't end it with like this is
wrong and here's why and here's some
true stuff about it i'll end it with but
here's what you take away what do you
actually do in the gym with your own
range of motion so you know not just
crap on things but actually learn stuff
which i think is most of the point of
this channel outside of my absolutely
terrible attempts to do comedy
alright so
the claim
is essentially that when you diet for
fat loss if you start a fat loss diet
in many circles and to many people the
first move is
you cut your carbs
everyone does it okay seemingly cool
everyone lots of people do it you read
about it all the time you hear about it
like hey jim how's monday treating you i
don't know i cut my carbs doing a fat
loss diet you know it makes sense buddy
here hang in there carbs are the enemy
and it's just something you kind of do
it's almost um
like implied so if i ever tell anyone
i'm i'm sitting on a plane or on a bus
or on a beach with lots of people coming
up to talk to me the beach doesn't
actually make any sense if i'm around
other folks and if you're just chatting
with them and i mention that i'm dieting
or they'll say like oh i see you're
eating xyz
they'll oftentimes very often say things
like so it's carbs right you gotta cut
the carbs it's just something that's
almost in our fitness culture super
embedded
and it's backed up by some
forms of reasoning reasoning is a real
stretch thomas soule is rolling around
right now hearing me say this there's a
notion
okay
that carbs are somehow uniquely
adipogenic which means they have a
unique ability
more than other nutrients being protein
and fat to cause fat gain a lot of times
you could be eating gobs of butter
physical animal fat
and some keto folks would be like i see
you're stoking that fat burning fire
like yeah with fat what
and then you have like one apple and
they're like i see you trying to put
that into your system you're gonna get
obese and you're like interesting so a
lot of there is there's a claim that
carbs are uniquely adipogenic the unique
ability to store fat and okay so those
are the claims let's see how far they go
well
turns out not very far
fundamentally the only thing you need to
lose fat
is a calorie deficit that is the core of
what you need
and to create that deficit usually you
increase activity you can good idea but
you almost always cut some nutrients out
which nutrients you cut matters a lot
less for fat loss and for sure for
weight loss then you know which then if
you cut the nutrients at all so if
you're cutting 400 calories out and it
comes from either all carbs or all fats
or all proteins a lot of the weight loss
is similar there are some differences
though in the body composition that will
result so
when you create that deficit it can come
from carbs
it can come from fats
even you can even come from proteins
probably if you're interested in losing
muscle so not a good idea for most of
you folks watching this channel and it
can of course come from a combination of
any two or even all three
now
here's the deal
most people
can benefit from cutting those carbs as
little as possible or not at all why
because if we cut carbs we cut a major
fuel source for hard workouts a major
fuel source for recovery and a major
macronutrient that promotes
anti-catabolism which is also known as
sparing muscle loss okay so carbs
literally give you a ton of energy to
train lots of ability to recover they
actually even promote deep sleep and
they give you this weapon against muscle
loss the thing is past a certain point
fats don't really do all that stuff
nearly as well or not at all
so the result is most people are eating
a fine amount of protein probably too
little but let's say they're fine on the
protein and the reason they need a
deficit to lose weight is because
they're eating too many carbs and too
many fats in some combination
if you take their fats and cut them down
to just what their body needs to
function normally a lot of times it
opens up this huge huge window of
caloric deficit and now you're burning
fat like crazy even though you didn't
touch your carbs at all and there's kind
of really no downside so to put another
way a lot of people can just cut their
fats and generate a really robust
deficit that powers fat loss for weeks
and weeks and weeks without ever
touching carbs and thus impinging on any
hormones or performance like carb
cutting would because crop cutting comes
with some serious downsides fat cutting
to a point which i'll get to what that
point is in a sec comes with downsides
you might not want so
grains of truth
yes
you can cut your carbs up front and
leave your fats or even cut your carbs a
ton and increase your fats you can do
those things as long as you generate a
deficit the diet is going to work quite
well that's not to say optimally but it
will work especially to lose weight
right definitely works for fat loss
definitely works weight loss and it has
some other benefits
a lot of folks but not all and maybe not
even the majority just lots of people in
the world
get a pretty cool anti-hunger effect
when they really drop their carbs keep
their fats and proteins high they just
generally don't tend to get as hungry as
they normally would if they have the
same number of calories but more carbs
and fewer fats if you are one of those
people and you never know until you
experiment a bunch with different
approaches
and if hunger is a really big deal to
you you can absolutely do that and
absolutely will work no big deal
and the other grain of truth the last or
a third grain of truth here
is that a lot of times when your
calories have to come down substantially
like towards the end of a fat loss phase
when your body's really stubborn and
you're really tired
it's not carbs versus fat it's like you
get down to the very low fats you can't
cut fats anymore without real
unfortunate consequences for your
muscularity your performance etc
and then you have to cut the carbs so a
lot of folks cut carbs because for them
that deficit needs to be big enough
where it's not an either or it's like
both you know it's like i'm going to
fight zombies do i need a gun or a knife
like
yes the answer is yes preferably a gun
that shoots knives
i may be onto something
comment below if you want to be in on my
zombie destruction technology project
what am i even saying
all right
taking all this together what are the
best practices what can we leave the
table with so here's the deal when you
need to create a deficit my
recommendation is to cut the excess fats
first what's excess anything above
roughly like 0.3 grams per pound per day
so if you weigh 200 pounds
then 60 grams of fat
is good enough to like check all the
boxes for hormonal activity and so on
and so forth and general health and
really you know if you're eating 150
grams of fats daily and you cut to 60
grams of fats you're going to see almost
no downsides in anything except a ton of
calories are opened up to create a fat
burning deficit so that would probably
be our first move now in addition to
that it's okay to go super low fats like
close to zero grams of fat per day for
like three to four weeks at the end of a
fat loss phase this is just if you need
to really lose weight to make some
weight class or something or you really
just need to get peeled peel peeled for
a bodybuilding show and even in those
cases
maybe ten percent on the time you do
this is extreme what i'm here to tell
you is it's okay
but it's rarely used and almost never
necessary but it can be done
this means that generally because you
prefer fat cutting you only cut carbs
when fat cutting is no longer an option
so if you have a lot of dieting left
over and you're already down so 60 grams
of fat at 200 pounds
and you're not losing weight as fast as
you need to it's time to cut some carbs
right that's just that's just what's
going on you know and if you're at the
end of the last few weeks and you've
tried to cut your fats before to the
very low numbers and you just feel like
total crap
it's time to cut carbs all right
fact of the matter it's way better than
cutting fats to zero if by experience
you've learned that cutting fats to
close to zero just destroys everything
about you which it can very well do
right it's not unhealthy
unless you do it for months and years
but it's also almost impossible but it's
something that you know cutting another
50 grams of carbs might be way better
than cutting another 20 grams of fat or
something like that
now
here's the big kicker for regular folks
that you might be helping out with their
fitness i know a lot of you folks watch
this channel
uh are personal trainers just like nice
people that know stuff and people come
up to you in the gym because you're more
jacked than average and they're like do
i like eat carbs or am i going to be
evil if i do
you can steer them by telling her a
couple things
a lot of people what they need to do in
order to lose a lot of fat and weight is
to clean up their diet i know it's a
stupid colloquial term but it basically
means is getting rid of excess sugary
carbs and excess fats now the thing is
when you get rid of foods that are high
in fat you won't get rid of almost all
excess sugary carb foods ice cream i
know this is going to be painful list
donuts pizza burgers
pasta but i like italian style with all
the
fucking oil everything
we don't make fuck pasta and philly oh
my fucking best like that kind of pasta
where there's like a fucking stick of
butter sticking out the
that kind of food potato chips fries i
could keep going milkshakes i could keep
going
all that kind of food brings in tons of
carbs yes but you know
most regular people
it's plenty of carbs it's fine it's not
the carbs it's the fat that brings in
that really jacks up the calories of
these foods so if you take these foods
and reduce them or eliminate them for a
while for a diet you end up reducing fat
like crazy so for example if someone's
at home and they're like can i still
have pasta like they're talking to you
between sets and the power act so i want
to lose fat like it's pasta okay you're
like yes but
get some turkey ground turkey instead of
like full fat ground beef
don't make the shit in butter uh make
sure you get a non-stick pan squirt a
little bit of that pam nonstick spray
and then fry it up like that and they're
like all right that's pasta but it
doesn't taste as good like yes i know
but it sands 400 calories per meal
of fats
which is a really good thing and the
thing is you can tell someone to cut
carbs
and mostly carbs and all of a sudden
almost every food they wanted to eat is
fucking gone and the low carb versions
of foods are usually awful and terrible
so it really restricts their menu but if
you get folks to just eat less junk food
and put less added fats into their food
leaner meat so on and so forth no excess
oils all of a sudden they can still have
the foods a little drier for sure it's
not it's not as great but it's still
super healthy it's still really filling
and they get this crazy amount
of calorie deficit generated without
feeling like they're starving to death
so
that's probably my best recommendation
you get regular folks interested you get
try to get them to eat leaner versions
of foods and all of a sudden they're
like holy crap i'm losing weight really
fast like yeah it's interesting when i'm
on my way up in a mass phase it's really
tempting to really skyrocket the fats
that would gain me a lot of fat of
course because it's so hard to eat a lot
of lean food it keeps you full and
there's just not that many calories i
have to get to 4 500 calories eating
rice and pasta and shit i'm like fuck
can i just have like five slices of
cheesecake that'll get me there just
fine the answer is no that's all fat
game but if you reverse that process and
say like i've been having a couple
slices of cheesecake every day some ice
cream pizza this and that if you just
take those foods and make them the lean
versions which is to say eliminating
most of them you still eat a ton of
really awesome food and you're like ah
yeah i would like a piece cheesecake but
i'm losing two pounds of fat per week
this is really awesome right so that's
my best recommendation
take out all the added oils and stuff
like that it's a real good start for
people losing fat and for many of them
that actually is all you need
some folks absolutely will do better
with lower carbs and higher fats and for
them by experiment by trial and error
you can say hey listen i believe you if
it's going well for you do it it just
sucks to see people like yeah man for me
fucking lowering the carbs is what it
takes and they weigh like 380 and
they're like takes to go where
and it's not like they used to be 600
they're like yeah i mean
you know you can still eat a load of
bacon you're like yes yes the problem is
you're still eating too much right so at
the end of the day if it works there's
got to be some meat behind it they have
been like hey i cut my carbs before and
i lost 50 pounds and then it's a matter
of them re-entering a diet we'll talk
about in in later videos and we have a
bunch of videos on this but you know if
it works it has to have some evidence of
working not just a notion you want to
try a notion that's fine you could crap
away several weeks of a diet trying a
notion that doesn't work
in any case keep an open mind yes carbs
are better than fats on average for
bodybuilding hypertrophy muscle
retention purposes
but there's a balancing act there and
it's up to you to find what works best
for you by trial and error folks thank
you so much for tuning in we'll see you
next week with another myth hopefully
it's not your favorite idea ever because
i'm going to crush it
that's my best arnold impression that's
all i get for now see you later
you