in this video I'll take you through nine
exercises I think are super effective
that I don't see nearly enough people
doing welcome back Dr mil wolf here PhD
in sport Science with wolf coaching the
sci is back and so am I the aim of this
video is to break down some forgotten
about exercises that you really should
be doing if you want to maximize muscle
growth before we get into them let me
give you a quick caveat very few studies
directly compare exercise
so while I'm making a very educated
guess here as to what exercises are
likely to be best for hypertrophy note
that we don't have a ton of direct
evidence on these exercises instead I'm
relying upon broad scientific principles
that we seem to have arrived at for
example emphasizing the stretch in a
given exercise would generally make it
better compared to an exercise that
doesn't emphasize the stretch other
exercises on this list are more time
efficient than traditional exercises I
see people performing in the gym for
muscle growth and finally some of these
exercises I've almost never seen anyone
do in the gym so without further Ado his
exercise number one we'll start with the
upper body the dumbbell fly is one of
the most underdone chest exercises for
hypertrophy for a long time people have
been Ming the dumbbell fly for
hypertrophy saying that it causes
shoulder injuries or that it's
suboptimal because you're not getting a
full range of motion or a good
resistance curve and instead people have
been advocating for the cable chest
crossover or the machine fly or even the
PC de machine instead while these are
all effective exercises I personally
think the dumbbell fly is going to be a
better chest exercise even though I
don't see that many people doing it the
Dumbo fly allows for a deeper stretch
compared to a pec deck or to a machine
fly typically and the resistance is
maxed out in that stretched position
which for hypertrophy is likely a good
thing additionally the Dumbo fly allows
you to depress your scapula without
restricting range of motion which
further increases the stretch on the
pcks a couple of important tips for
lumbo fly or to keep your elbows
relatively straight don't just turn it
into a weird press fly hybrid and
generally perform lumbo flies for sets
of anywhere between 10 reps and 30 reps
that's personally where I think they're
most useful in the heavier rep range of
say 5at to 10 reps you're likely better
served with a compound movement I got a
whole video on the best chest exercises
you can check out but that is the long
and short of it next we have the
dumbbell pullover while I see many
people perform the cable pullover for
the lats the dumb pullover has also kind
of fallen out of favor in the gym crowd
similarly to the Dell fly I think this
is a shame the dumbbell pullover is
essentially a length and partial for
your lats on average it's going to train
your lats at longer muscle LS in a more
stretched position compared to the cable
pullover in general you'll want to
minimize the amount of elbow flexion
however if you find that your triceps
get really involved in a dama pullover
you could play around with a bit more
elbow Bend as a means to reduce the
moment arm on the elbow and on the
triceps and increase the contribution of
the lats to the movement compared to the
cable pullover I also think the dumbbell
pullover is a little bit harder to cheat
for most people keep your ball on the
bench don't extend your spine too much
and congratulations it'll be very
difficult to cheat the D pullover
additionally I think the exercise is
well suited for higher rep ranges I
typically do sets of 15 to three reps on
dbo pullovers as such it fills a really
cool Gap in your back training because
doing pull Downs or rows for sets of
more than about 15 reps can get really
systemically tiring dumo pullovers can
work as a great exercise within that rep
range so don't get me wrong still do
your pull Downs do your ROP Etc but the
pullover in my opinion is going to be a
phenomenal underrated lat exercise next
we have the single arm dumbbell preach C
why the sing arm dumbbell preacher
specifically well for tall fellows like
myself I'm 6'2 I find that using a
barbell or an easy bar typically
restricts the stretch that I get at the
bottom the barbell will often hit the
safeties or I'll hit the bench before I
can get a full stretch with the dumbbell
on the other hand there is nothing
getting in the way of the dumbbell and
your arm getting into a fully stretched
position so the Dum B single arm
preacher curl tends to just be more
versatile for people of different builds
now you might be saying hold on the
preacher curl puts your biceps in a
slightly more shortened position by
having your shoulder flexed right and
that's not a good thing right we want
the muscle to be stretched out or
lengthened first of all you're a stute
wolf coaching viewer well done but
secondly that might not be all there is
to excise selection and in fact one
comparison we have of the preacher curl
and the incline curl showed more
favorable bicep hypertrophy from the
preacher curl and that likely has to do
with the fact that the movement is most
Challen challenging when your forearm is
parallel to the ground and the preacher
curl that is close to the fully
stretched position compare this to the
incline curl with the hardest part of
the lift might be relatively close to
the peak contraction and so while the
preacher curl doesn't maximize stretch
on the biceps it does place a lot of
tension in a relatively lengthened
position on the biceps I also find sing
arm dumbbell preacher curls to be very
easy to push close to failure and once
again these are pretty suitable to high
rep Rangel I can comfortably do these
for sets of 15 to 30 reps and still get
close to so while you might be doing
your behind the back cable curls or
beijan curls or other exercises part of
your bicep routine do try including some
single arm dumbbell preacher CS next up
we have the side belts and one of the
most underrated exercises in my opinion
is the single arm flat Ling dumbbell
lateral raise that is a long name
essentially lie sideways on a flat bench
grab a dumbbell and do some lateral
raises once again the resistance will be
greatest when your arm is parallel to
the ground and because you're lying down
sideways that will occur when your arm
is right by your side contrast this to a
standing dumbbell lateral raise at that
point in the movement when your arm is
just hanging by your side there is
essentially no tension on the side belt
so this movement is essentially a pretty
flexible way of really loading that
stretch position for the side belts it
doesn't require any cables or any
machines and yet it allows you to really
effectively Target that loaded stretch
even if you're in a home gym and you
don't have any cables and all you have
is a bench and some dumbbells you can
still do this I typically come to just
below the bench and then come back up
aiming for each lowering phase to last
about 2 seconds this is a hard movement
if you can use much more than about 30
lb on this I would be impressed submit
your videos and have me give you a
thumbs up make ego lifting cool again
next we have the dip but specifically a
dip where you go as deep as you can
potentially go obviously pay attention
to how much pain you experience if going
too deep for you consistently causes
pain maybe don't do it and maybe see a
physical therapist about it this is not
medical advice but if you are able to
get deep on the dip it does provide a
substantial loaded stretch on the
triceps specifically the medial and
lateral head it does provide a good
stretch on the front delts and it likely
provides a decent stretch on the lower
chest and upper chest as well I think
that for a lot of train lifters the as
grass or I guess shoulder wrist dip is a
really good option because it allows you
to train in a more moderate rep range
where you won't have too much trouble
getting close to failure but is still
pretty effective provides a loaded
stretch and so forth at the very least
it doesn't take any special equipment
you can get very deep and get a load
stretch on several muscles at once and I
find it a bit more time efficient than
many exercises that require external
load so if you're pressed for time and
still looking to get a good stimulus
fire Pion try the dip going as deep as
you can comfortably go exercise number
six and rounding out our upper body
exercises is the rear Delta cable
crossover we've covered most of the
muscle groups in the upper body at this
point but one of them we haven't really
covered is the rear delt and the way
most people train the rear delts they're
probably missing out on something the
face Pole is is fine the Machine rear
out fly is fine the way most people
perform their rear outfly is kind of
okay as well but if you want to get more
muscle growth there's a good chance that
crossing over your arms and getting a
deeper stretch in your rear dels is
going to lead to more muscle growth and
personally I think it's likely the
single best rear delt exercise out there
you can apply the same concept of
crossing over your arms and getting a
deeper stretch in your rear ads to face
PS as well if for example you do sing
alarm face PS you can turn away from the
cable and kind of get a deeper stretch
in your rear Del by doing so now you
might be asking Dr Milo I see you
getting one arm a little bit lower than
the other wouldn't that cause
asymmetries in your muscular development
over time well personally I don't think
it really will the difference in motion
of the arm is very minor between the two
arms and I suspect differences in
hypertrophy would be quite minimal
however if you are worried about this
just switch around your arms between
sets one set your right arm goes over
next set it goes under and repeat and
congratulations you don't have to worry
about this anymore but I see you people
you have lagging rear dels physique wise
and so maybe try this out it might help
you now that we've covered all the upper
body exercises that's right I see you
you want to turn off this video you
better stay I see your legs too we're
going to cover three exercises I think
are underrated for leg development first
the quads and I think for the quads
people love the leg extension and don't
get me wrong it will grow some muscle
but there's a very solid chance that the
reverse Nordic curl or even this 6 quat
are better exercises for Quad
hypertrophy your knee is capable of
around 150° of range of motion for a lot
of people and most light extension
machines have you going through maybe 90
or 110° of knee extension range of
motion so you're missing out on between
around 40 to 60° of stretch on your
quarts Additionally the way most leg
extension machines are built they
require you to have a hip angle of about
90° or something and because one part of
your quads the rectus femoris is also a
hip flexor this further shortens that
muscle and finally the leg extension is
essentially a shorten partial it is
hardest at the very top of the movement
when your quads are contracted and
easiest at the very bottom of the
movement now are there machines out
there that can largely circumvent these
issues yes not entirely but there are
some machines out there like the Prime
Fitness leg extension but these are few
and far in between so instead let's try
using an exercise that kind of Remedies
all of these issues and that is the
reverse Nordic curl by extending your
hips you're further lengthen the rectus
foror additionally with this exercise
you can go as deep as you need to you
can max out your knee flexion range of
motion and get a full stretch in your
quads and the third issue of leg
extension the fact that it's hardest at
the top which is the opposite what we
want is actually the opposite what
happens in the reverse Nordic C in the
reverse Nordic curl it gets harder and
harder as you stretch out the quadriceps
the main cues for this exercise are to
keep your hips extended the whole time
even when you really don't want to when
you're starting to lift back up and
secondly go as deep as you can
comfortably go the eighth underrated
exercise for building muscle is the
Smith machine split squat if you're
struggling with getting sufficiently
deep during a traditional squat this
might fix that isy turning stud as a
coach I found that most people can get
deeper in terms of their knee range of
motion and their hip range of motion and
therefore get a deeper stretch on their
quads their adductors and their glutes
if they do a single leg movement like a
split squat as opposed to a squad
additionally using a Smith machine
you're able to substantially reduce the
stability demands of traditional split
squad or lunch and finally on a Smith
machine you can reck the weight at any
time so you can go close to failure or
to failure even using partials quite
safely and the final benefit of the
Smith machine split squat is that you're
using quite a lightweight and so if you
experience some pain with your back for
example if you're loading it heavily or
if you're someone whose back tends to
get quite tired from rdl's good mornings
and squats and therefore you find that
your program kind of needs certain
exercises that aren't as fatiguing in
terms of your lower back this could be a
good choice it's going to provide a
great stimulus for your quads minus
directus femoris for your glutes and for
your adaptors again minus the smaller
Alor muscles and the small glute muscles
and finally to round out these nine
exercises we have the pistol Squad now
hear me out if there's anyone watching
this video with a calisthenics
background you might be saying Factor we
knew this already pistol squats are
great and you're right they are great
but for hypertrophy I think they're
great for different reasons that you
might expect personally recently I've
been doing a lot of pistol squats why
because I'm busy i' be out here grinding
making videos for you and so I've
stumbled upon the pistol Squad and the
pistol squat is really time efficient
personally the only warm up I really
need is a set of body weight squats
bilaterally but then a couple of reps of
 squats maybe like a rep or two of
pistol squats and boom I'm ready to go
it takes me about a minute or two to W
up total conversely if I were to try to
go heavy on the barbell squat just
loading the plates up to three four
maybe over four plates would take me
quite a while if you're strong enough to
do pistol squats for at least five reps
they become a really solid option for
hypertrophy but I never see anyone do
them in the joke that's right I didn't
just clickbait you telling you unpopular
exercises I'm actually providing
citations here or a question rather when
is the last time you saw someone do
pistol squats in the gym I sure haven't
seen them I personally like doing these
as lengthen partials even to make it
even more challenging and honestly I'm a
fairly strong squatter like I can
probably squat around 400 to 450 for 10
at my strongest High bar asass
additional Flex anyways I can get maybe
8 to 10 length and partials on pistol
squats with a good Tempo obviously your
mileage may vary based on your body
weight and all that but I think pistol
squats are underwe it especially if
you're in a rush and once again like the
Smith machine split Squad they reduce
the loading on the spine a little bit
which removes some limiting factors and
reduces fatigue imposed upon the lower
back musculature throughout the movement
for stability I'd recommend and holding
on to something try to avoid using your
arm to push yourself back up but just
having it there in case you tipping over
or what have you can make it so that you
can push this movement close to failure
or to failure without really having to
worry about tipping over as much those
are nine exercises I think you should be
doing in your routine that I don't see
enough people doing that is the video if
you like the video please leave a like
comment subscribe do you agree that
these nine exercises are really
effective and not enough people are
doing them I want to hear your thoughts
leave a comment down below now I hear
you saying but DC I just want someone to
give me a program that is going to be
individualized to me highly effective
and I finally want to make gains well
look no further check out my.com and
sign up to be notified when our training
app that we've been working on for years
finally gets released we've looked at a
lot of the competition and I'm super
confident in saying this it is like
nothing else out there I've been
training with it myself for a few months
now it caters to your schedule how many
days a week you can train what
priorities you have for example if you
want to specialize on certain muscle
groups it does all of that and delivers
you with a truly individualized program
that caters to your preferences what
sort of routine you want to follow a ton
of things it is science-based we use the
latest science to inform exactly how it
works how many sets you do how long you
rest for between sets what exercises it
recommends you as a quick Glimpse if
you're constrained by time it'll
prioritize getting you exercis that are
time efficient whereas if you're not
time constrained it'll prioritize
providing with exercises that maximize
Effectiveness and there's so much more
to my adapt so please go check out my
adapt.com sign up to be notified and
you'll be able to lock in at a lower
price than any other time now you might
be saying that's a nice t-shirt yeah I
agree let me show you the
back we looking fly as hell right here
if you like what you're seeing check out
Rascal apparel.com their clothing is my
favorite stuff to train in it's
comfortable it's stylish so if you like
what you see go check them out and use
code wolf at checkout for 10% off in the
meantime I hope you enjoyed these L
exercises have a fantastic day and we'll
see you next time peace