the time has come to ditch the
toothpicks here are the best exercises
for building your calves according to
the
science welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
today with wolf coaching PhD in sports
science and proud owner of 17in calves
these bad boys didn't grow themselves
how did I get them well I use good
exercises what makes a good calf
exercise you ask the exact same things
that make any other exercise a good
choice for hypertrophy and his what
those things are first we want an
exercise that's reasonably stable
something like a Bose ball calf raise or
some sort of drop jump isn't going to be
ideal for the calves on account of poor
stability next whatever exercise we do
pick should Target one of the functions
of the gastrus or the Solus the two calf
muscles and ideally across your whole
exercise selection or program you want
to Target all of the primary functions
of a muscle whatever excise we do pick
for the calves shouldn't have too many
moving parts that could be the limiting
factor so so for example a squat jump
where you're also involving your quads
glutes and other muscle groups probably
isn't ideal because the calves are
unlikely to be the limiting factor in
whatever limits performance for that
exercise next whatever exercise we do
pick for calf growth should be stretch
friendly and here's what I mean by that
first it should allow the calvs to be
sufficiently stretched in terms of the
position they get into if an exercise
doesn't allow for a good stretch it
probably isn't going to be ideal for
muscle growth two common mistakes people
make when training calves are one
allowing for a sufficient deficit to let
your calves get fully stretched for
example by doing calf Rises just
standing on the ground and two with
regards to the gas TR neus doing too
many seated calf raises by having your
knee bent you're actually shortening the
gas TR more and so for the gas TR neus
doing a calf raise with your knees
extended like a standing calf raise is
going to be better in terms of
lengthening that muscle the second part
of being stretch friendly is having a
stretch heavy resistance curve
essentially the exercise you use should
have plenty of tension in that lengthen
position and finally whatever calf
exercise we pick should be length and
partial friendly this is especially
important since most calf raises are
actually hardest at the very top of the
rip when your ankle plant or flexors or
your calves are most shortened and
generally we want the opposite of this
by doing length and partials we can
circumvent this issue within most
exercises fortunately most calf
exercises are length and partial
friendly and this is important because
we do actually have one study that
directly look at the effect of lengthen
partials versus shorten partials versus
a full range of motion in the like press
calf raay by Casiano and colleagues this
study generally saw the best hypertrophy
when using lengthen partials versus a
full range of motion or shortened
partials the length and partials group
saw more hypertrophy than both the full
range of motion group and the short and
partials group at one site and similar
hypertrophy to the full range of motion
group at another site but that was still
greater than the shorten partials group
and so lengthened partials are likely a
good idea when it comes to maximizing
calf hyper another factor to consider
when it comes to calf training is
whether or not the exercise you pick is
or is not actually loaded essentially is
there a load on your spine when you're
doing your calf training for example in
a like press calf raise or body weight
calf raise there's usually less Force
imposed upon your spine when compared to
something like a Smith machine calf
raise since loading the spine does
nothing to increase calf stimulus we may
as well avoid this if we can the final
two factors that you may or may not want
to pay attention to When selecting the
perfect exercise are as follows one time
efficiency generally if you're someone
who's limited on time you'll want to pay
attention to what exercises allow you to
do the most hard sets with a given
amount of time generally exercises that
use cables stack loaded machines or
dumbbells will be more time efficient
than exercises that require you to load
the plates on a barbell or on a plate
loaded machine likewise certain
exercises just take a bit more setup
before you can actually get started with
the exercise so time efficiency is one
additional Factor the final factor is
microl loadability certain exercises
generally barbell exercises or plate
loaded exercises you can adjust the
weight by very small increments compared
to set other exercises like for example
a stack loaded machine or a cable stack
where generally especially if you're
using pretty low weights jumping from
one weight to the next is a pretty large
jump and might often take you months
before you can do it having those
smaller weight jumps available to you
just makes progression week to week a
little bit more consistent it's not a
huge issue because you can just use
double progression as a means to get
around that issue but if you have it a
more microl loadable exercise may make
progression a little bit smoother with
all these factors in mind you may have
quite a few exercises in your head that
you think are good candidates for calf
grth however before you can actually
determine what the best one is you also
need to know what the Cales actually do
and how for example to stretch them the
calf muscle or the tricep seray as
they're sometimes called are actually
composed of two muscles there's the
Gastro nemus and the Solus the gastr
nemus has two functions the first is
knee flexion like a light curl and the
second is ankle plant reflection like
well a c raise and in fact the only
function of the Solus is ankle planter
flexion as well and so because both the
Solus and the gastrus are involved in
ankle planter flexion doing a CAF ra is
going to hit both of them pretty
effectively there's a few implications
of this anatomy and the functions of the
muscles involved first because the gastr
does contribute to NE flexion as well
just doing some light curls might get
you reasonably decent calves another
implication of the anatomy of the gas Ro
specifically is that the gas rock is
more lengthened when the knees are
extended like in a standing calf or a c
pH on leg press for example for the
Solus on the other hand the position of
the knee doesn't impact its length and
so if we both want to maximally lengthen
the gastr and the Solus in the same
exercise we want to pick an exercise
with the knees extended fortunately you
don't just need to take my word for this
because we actually have studies
comparing calf raises with your knees
extended to calf raises with your your
knees flexed and actually measuring Gast
Rock growth to see whether or not
extending your knees during calf raises
actually does lead to more gastrock
growth and to make a long story short
both a study by Kim and colleagues and a
study by our own lab in New York with
Brad shenfeld has found that the gas
roock seems to grow more when you do
your calf raises with your knees
extended like a Smith machine calf raise
or any sort of standing calf raise
variation and meanwhile for the Solus
there just doesn't seem to be any major
difference in hypertrophy whether you do
your caf seated or standing and So based
on the anatomy of the calves based on
the criteria for selecting your best
calf exercise and based on the three
studies I mentioned earlier what do I
think is single-handedly the best calf
exercise I think the single best calf
exercise All Things Considered is going
to be the leg press calfas or really any
stack loaded calf machine that has your
knees extended and doesn't place any
load on your back let's break the leg
press CAF down first there is no load on
your spine there also aren't really any
other muscle groups besides the the
gastrus and the Solus that could
potentially limit performance hit
Additionally the like press calf race
targets the primary function of both the
calf muscles which is to plant or Flex
the ankle or essentially go in your
tippy toes it's also stretch friendly
there's plenty of tension in lengthen
position it's safe to lengthen paral on
because you can just react the weight
and finally because your knees are
extended you're fully lengthening the
gastrus and obviously the Solus as well
just by getting into deep dorsy flexion
compared to a plate load leg press the
fact that you can just adjust the weight
on the stack means Big Time Savings as
you can usually use a pretty respectable
weight on the leg press cafr if you're
too strong for the stack at your gym you
may need to do either single leg calf
raises on a leg press or do higher reps
whichever one suits you better
personally when doing a leg press calf
raise there's a few things I do one
because I get pain at the bottom of my
feet when I do High Reps I typically do
lower reps and two when I'm doing length
and partials which is always I just aim
to get my ankle to about 90Â° essentially
my toes are in line with the heel what
are some honorable mentions for the best
calf exercises one great exercise is the
single leg body weight calf raise nearly
everyone has access to what it takes for
this exercise all you need is some sort
of stare or step even just your body
weight can be sufficient for a lot of
people to get an infected hypy stimulus
in doing between 5 and 30 reps you can
load them even more by just holding on
to a dumbbell and using the other arm
for stability holding on to something
else and in fact during the co pandemic
and during lockdown and I was training
at home I did these all the time another
honorable mention is the Smith machine
standing calf ra or any standing calf ra
machine again because the knees are
extended this still provides a full
stretch to the gas Rock but it is
loading your spine a little bit and you
may or may not need to load the plates
which reduces its time efficiency a
little bit now to answer a question I'm
sure I'll get in the comments below can
you still do seated calf raises first
off you absolutely can I'm not your
father I'm not going to tell you exactly
what to do and what not to do with that
being said it's hard to argue that
seated calf frees should be a main stay
within your training program because we
have three studies all finding that
getting a good stretch in your gastr is
important to maximize its muscle growth
so if you're making seated calf raises
your bread and butter just expect to
lose out on some gastral growth on top
of that these two studies comparing the
seated to the standing cavies didn't
really find a benefit to the Solus
either so it's not like you're getting
less gastrock growth but more Solus
growth you're just getting less gastral
growth for the same Solus growth so if
you do still want to include seated calf
raises feel free but I would say keep
them to about maybe 10 to 20% of your
overall calf training volume otherwise
you will likely compromise overall calf
growth and in fact if you want to
maximize the size of your calves at this
point I would probably forego them all
together anyways that is the video give
the like press CAF a shot in your
training and let me know what you think
if you enjoyed this video please comment
like subscribe let me know if there are
any other videos you would like to see
or if you have any questions about this
video If you want me to handle your
training consider getting coaching on my
website link up here somewhere thank you
for your time today have a great day and
I'll see you next time peace