all right next question we've got a
study published this is an interesting
question a study published in the
Journal of evolution and human behavior
found that after one hour of chopping
wood the group's testosterone levels
increased by 48 percent which is a
higher increase than lifting weights
which is only about 20 percent so would
you say that we could benefit from
chopping wood before certain training
sessions for example before a leg day so
actually dug the study up it's not a new
study was published in 2013 so I'm not
sure where it's coming from now but I
thought it was it was kind of
interesting the study was actually
conducted on I may say this wrong but
I'm gonna say Simon forager farmers so
people from sy Maine which is I think a
community in Bolivia and according to
the study these men ranged from age 16
to 80 years old and they already had
baseline salivary testosterone levels
one third lower than age-matched u.s.
males and as quote non-industrialized
populations facing energetic constraints
and pathogenic stress show lower levels
of testosterone across all adult ages as
compared to men in industrialized
nations so basically I would say
comparing the men in this study who are
quite deprived to men in a Western
culture who live in in abundance as
probably sort of like comparing apples
and oranges what might drive their
testosterone up may not be the same as
what would drive our testosterone up so
I would really take this study with a
grain of salt but with that said I think
that the broader point here the broader
question is should we even be concerning
ourselves with acute changes in
testosterone around a training session
and I would say probably not this was
really popular like a decade or more ago
but most of the recent literature has
all been converging on the consensus
that what we should focus on in training
is progressive tension generating more
tension over time progressive overload
and all the factors I've talked about on
the channel before and the sort of
hormone hypothesis of muscle growth
where you're trying to design your
training program around these acute
spikes in testosterone growth hormone or
igf-1 or whatever's popular at the
is kind of futile because they are so
transient and because they don't take
you enough out of the Physiol
physiological range for it to produce
any significant impact on muscle growth
this has been shown in a study by dr.
Bradshaw infilled and by dr. stu
phillips and pretty much every expert in
the field at this point has come to
pretty much unanimous agreement that
this isn't something that you want to
concern yourself with obviously that
isn't to say the testosterone isn't
anabolic it clearly is but you need to
look at prolonged elevation in
elevations in testosterone and then also
you need to consider where your baseline
level of testosterone is so the natural
physiological range is actually a really
broad range so it goes from around 300
nanograms per deciliter all the way up
to a thousand nanograms per deciliter or
around there so let's just imagine
you're down reasonably low but still
healthy so around 300 taking yourself up
to let's say 5 or 600 through lifestyle
changes like you know getting more sleep
or whatever is probably gonna have a
positive impact on like your training
performance and perhaps your muscle mass
as well but it has to be a prolonged
elevation and it just isn't clear in the
literature how much of a modification in
the normal range is required to see
differences on a physique level so let's
say you currently sit somewhere in the
600 range we'll going up to the 800
range or the 900 range make a difference
I really don't know but I doubt it's
gonna be much of a difference what we
know makes a big difference is if you
inject testosterone then you go well up
above a thousand nanograms per deciliter
and that's when you start to see huge
changes in body composition muscle mass
performance etc so this transient spike
in bolivian 16 to 80 year olds from
woodchopping isn't something I'd
extrapolate to your own training but
even further than that I wouldn't do
little things like training with certain
exercises or at certain times a day with
the goal of increasing testosterone or
or any other hormone
all right next question so you mentioned
in a previous video that you were
planning on reading 50 books this year
what books have you read so far and
which ones do you plan on reading later
this year and why so already I'm a
little bit behind but I'm getting caught
up so the first book I read you guys
heard me talk about this before the
skeptics guide to the universe probably
one of my all-time favourite books as of
now and now I'm currently reading the
Harry Potter series so I just finished
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
and now I'm currently on number two and
then after that I've been on a bit of a
crime kick lately so I've been watching
a bunch of documentaries on OJ Simpson
and I watched them making a murderer
series on Netflix so make it a few books
to do with that like Stephen King fan
and I like kind of like detective novels
as well so and I'll keep you guys posted
on all the books I plan on reading and
that's gonna bring me to the end of the
Q&A and before we go I have to give a
huge thank you to our sponsor our
audible for sponsoring this video
audible is in my opinion the only way
I'm gonna be able to get through 50
books this year I find audiobooks to
just be the most convenient way to get a
bunch of reading in if I'm on my way to
the gym or just lying in the bed I'll
just plug in the audiobook and bang out
a couple of chapters really very easily
yeah audible is a great service guys
we'd like to get started with your own
30 day free trial you can go to
audible.com forward slash Jeff Nippert
or you can text Jeff nipper to 500 500
thank you so much audible for sponsoring
the video showing your support on the
channel I really appreciate it thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave me a like if you enjoyed the
video don't forget to subscribe if you
happen to be new and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one