what is the most effective workout for
fat loss ultimately it is any workout
that you can consistently stick to for
long enough to make a difference any
workout that burns a good amount of
calories and fits within your lifestyle
if you have sufficient time within your
lifestyle to commit to this what I would
recommend is setting a daily Target step
goal by increasing how many steps you do
from say 2,000 a day to 10,000 a day
you'll notice a meaningful increase in
your energy expenditure therefore
contributing to more overall fat loss
another alternative would be to perform
dedicated cardio sessions with the to
increase energy expenditure what in that
case what I typically perform is maybe 2
to five cardio sessions within the gym
on an elliptical machine or a cycling
machine as both of these forms of cardio
have minimum eccentric loading or impact
aiming for a certain calorie goal on
that equipment every time for example
four weekly sessions of 300 calories
burned on either piece of equipment
ultimately keep in mind that the impact
of exercise on weight loss is going to
be relatively small compared to diet but
exercise is still healthy so it's
something you should be doing regardless
hopefully that answers your question of