[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to perform the
dip with perfect technique but before we
jump into the technique itself let's
have a quick look at what muscles we're
going to be targeting first so with the
dip we're training both the upper and
lower pecs through shoulder adduction
basically bringing the arm across the
body closer to the midline like in a
benchpress
the anterior deltoids and clavicular or
upper head of the pecs are gonna be
performing shoulder flexion so basically
bringing your arm forward like in a
front raise and of course the triceps
will be involved through elbow extension
where the arm straightens out on 2010
dr. Brett Contreras ran a solo EMG
experiment and found that the way to dip
activated the lower pecs the most
however just noticed that the weighted
dip still saw a higher peak EMG
activation for the upper chest and even
the incline bench press with 225 pounds
so just because the lower chest was the
most active doesn't imply that that dips
are only a lower chest exercise they
will in fact hit the entire PEC muscle
to a very significant degree making it a
great overall mass and strength builder
now similar to the pull-up and many
people think of the dip as a bodyweight
only movement often being used as a sort
of finisher exercise for high reps and
it can be used for this purpose however
since it trains multiple joints in a
strong position I think it's actually
smarter in most cases to load the dip in
a more moderate to heavy rep zone
something around six to twelve reps
although if you are using them as a high
rep finisher you certainly can go as
high as thirty reps or more with
bodyweight
now despite the dip being a heavy
compound movement it is in fact much
less technical than the bench press or
overhead press so it's much more
acceptable to push sets much closer to
failure allowing the muscles to
experience fatigue under heavy load
something they may not be getting from
the basic presses and with that said if
you are new to the dip I think you
should start out with relatively low
exertions and then as you master
technique and gradually work your way up
to higher effort sets since even small
deviations in for
can we - pain under heavy load for the
sake of this video we're going to be
assuming that to be close to failure in
the 6 to 12 rep zone you're going to
need to be adding external resistance to
the movement and you can do this by
using a loading belt or by having a
training partner place a dumbbell
between your legs however if you're
reaching or nearing failure with
bodyweight only in that rep range and
it's much more important to master form
first and once you hit 12 reps with
bodyweight then you can gradually
increase the weight from there and of
course there's no shame at all in using
the assistance from the machine which
will most likely be required for
beginners and overweight individuals in
order to maintain proper form but
regardless of your specific loading
strategy the execution will be more or
less the same so you want to find a dip
rack or any pair of parallel bars and
take a grip just outside at
shoulder-width prop yourself up so you
can grip the handles with your elbows
and shoulders fully extended and place
your weight onto the handles by curling
your legs in behind you just gonna
prevent your feet from hitting the
ground on each rep before beginning the
lowering phase you want to make sure
your shoulder blades are slightly
retracted and depressed to make sure
everything is a nice and stable around
the shoulder joint and you want to lean
your torso slightly forward I'm just
gonna shift a bit of that emphasis onto
the chest you don't want to exaggerate
this forward lean to the point that it
starts to look like a sort of floating
pushup now but you also don't want to do
the dip completely upright which can
lead to shoulder pain and take the pecs
more out of the movement so slowly lower
your torso down under control for about
a two-second lowering phase and a smooth
controlled negative is extremely
important on the dip so you don't
accidentally extend the range of motion
past your shoulders natural capabilities
and on the negative you want to keep
your knees pinched together and keep
your hips extended to prevent tipping
which is a form of cheating where your
knees come forward creating momentum and
changing your center of balance you also
want to keep your scapula retracted and
keep your thoracic spine extended by not
allowing your upper back to round as you
descent go down until your upper arm and
forearm make a better 90 degree angle or
to the point where you feel a strong
stretch in your PEC
and triceps for some people that'll be
slightly below 90 degrees I think most
people with healthy shoulders should aim
to get to the point where their upper
arm is parallel to the floor without
pausing at the bottom we're gonna
reverse the motion by driving your hands
and down into the handles while keeping
our torso in the same position and at
the top of the range you should make
sure your shoulder blades are still
retracted and your upper back is still
extended now I would say the most common
error on the dip is anterior scapular
tilting and in my opinion this is why
many people can run into shoulder
problems with the dip and why it's
become a bit of a controversial exercise
most people know to keep the scapula
retracted and depressed on the bench
press because it puts the shoulder in a
safer position but not as many people
carry the same advice to the dip despite
it being very biomechanically a similar
so before dipping you want to pull your
shoulder blades together and tuck them
down but you can think about is just
keeping your upper back straight and try
not to go too deep and make sure you
reverse the motion before you start to
lose that stable shoulder position
another very common error is trying to
stay too upright people will often just
assume that a more upright posture is
gonna hit the triceps more but in
reality the pecs delts and triceps are
all going to be very highly active when
the dip is performed with a natural
forward inclination and I'm not a big
fan personally of trying to manipulate
the movement with different grip withes
or different postures to try to target
different muscles that much rather see
you find a good comfortable lifting
groove that feels natural for your
particular anthropometry and then stick
with that and get better at it but with
that said trying to stay too upright can
certainly lead to excessive stress on
the shoulder joint while at the same
time taking some of the pecs
contributing power out of the movement
I'm not a big fan of the bench dips it
has an alternative here where your torso
is out in front of your shoulder since
you're so much more likely to see
anterior scapular tilting early in the
range of motion so if you're not able to
do the free weight dip we can use the
assisted dip machine or a way to dip
machine if your gym has one although I
don't think these machines can truly
replace the strength and overall mass
building potential of a properly
performed free weight dip and we did
push-ups are another pretty good
replacement but you might not be able to
get that scene
agree of stretch on the pecs and it can
be difficult to load past a certain
strength threshold so guys that's all
that I have for the dip if you guys are
interested in putting all of this
information into a full training routine
that you can follow and you can check
out all my training programs including
my chest and benchpress specialization
programs on my website both of which
include a dip in the routine and I'll
have both of those linked down below
thanks again so much for watching guys I
don't forget to leave me a like if you
enjoyed the video please subscribe if
you haven't already so that you don't
miss future technique Tuesday episodes
and I'll see you guys all here next
Tuesday