about a year ago I made a video on how
to grow a butt and in it I discussed the
most effective exercises for the glutes
I'd like to expand on that information
and recruit the help of my good friend
Abby Pollock to help with the
demonstrations and explanations first a
really quick refresher on anatomy and
function Abby's gonna take this one over
this is the gluteus maximus it mainly
performs hip extension hip abduction
external rotation and posterior pelvic
tilt
it's the biggest muscle in the human
body which is why it gets the most
attention when it comes to growing a
buck however the gluteus medius is
actually about half the weight of the
glute Max and that's a pretty sizable
contribution to the butt as a whole so
we're gonna go against the grain and
quickly cover this muscle first so while
the glute max is about an even 50/50
split of fast and slow twitch fibers the
glute medius is slightly more
slow-twitch dominant so using a slightly
higher rep scheme make sense the glute
medius has a major stabilizing role
during movement but the main way to
target it directly is through hip
abduction a 2014 study by lien
colleagues found that internally
rotating pointing your toes in was more
effective at activating the glute medius
and since external rotation activates
the glute Maximus more using a toes in
position to hit the glute medius and a
toes out position to hit the Maximus
gets the best of both worlds including
unilateral exercises with a
stabilization component such as single
leg hip thrusts split squats or walking
lunges is another way to target the
glute medius
[Music]
moving on to the glute Maximus ABI most
of us know by now that they hit the rust
is king or queen for the glutes this is
because the glutes are most effective
when the hips are close to full
extension so let's cover some ways to
make this already great exercise even
more effective first doing some kind of
pre activation movement beforehand is a
good idea a 2016 studied by Fisher and
colleagues found that targeted glute
training enhanced glute recruitment
during more integrative exercises
because of the changes in cortical motor
excitability in other words doing glute
activation drills that isolate the
glutes little activation carry over to
heavier compound exercises such as the
hip thrust a 2016 study by Contreras and
colleagues compared glute activation in
three hip thrusts variations barbell
American and banded hip thrusts the
barbell hip thrust keeps a neutral
pelvis with the body further down on the
bench the american hip thrust uses
posterior pelvic tilt with the body
further up on the bench and the banded
hip thrust is the same as traditional
except using a band for resistance the
barbell hip thrust resulted in the
greatest upper glute activity however
there's no difference between the three
four lower glutes and since most women
want to build the upper glute shelf the
most other data has suggested that in
addition to the hip thrust hip abduction
exercises such as banded clams are great
for selectively targeting the upper
glutes as well back to the hip thrust
interesting Lee and surprisingly despite
the fact that the glutes do function too
posteriorly tilt the pelvis this study
found that a neutral pelvic position was
best during the hip thrust
also while 11 of the 13 subjects are the
most upper glute activity with the
traditional barbell hip thrust a view of
the trainee saw better activation with
the banded or American variations so
while the traditional hip thrust is
probably your safest bet you should play
around with the others and see if you
feel them working your beeps better a
2013 study found that 30 degrees of hip
abduction caused more glute activation
with the prone hip extension exercise
the others explained that because the
gluteus maximus is a fusiform muscle the
muscle fibers should lie in the same
direction as a line of pull in order to
optimize muscle activation so when you
perform hip abduction or take a wider
stance the direction of muscle pull runs
parallel to the fiber of the muscle
leading to greater activation
[Music]
okay so how do we put all this into an
actual training program well first how
often should you train the glutes
scientific literature agrees that in
general training a muscle two times per
week is better than one time per week
but according to Brett Contreras certain
exercises take longer to recover from
than others
so called stretcher exercises like
Romanian deadlifts squats and lunges
need three to four days for recovery
activators like hip thrusts and cable
pull through need two to three days
while so-called pumper exercises like
banded sumo walks only need a day or two
so if you set up the training week with
these unique recovery curves in mind I
think a sweet spot for most is hitting
the glutes three to four days per week
here's a quick example of a way you
could set it up periodization or how you
organize your training over a longer
time scale is also important research
indicates that periodic variation is the
most important factor so changing up
your routine is important however you
shouldn't change it up so often that you
lose focus on strength progressions I
personally think switching the routine
up every one to three months is best on
a yearly scale the main thing to focus
on is strength progression you should be
able to move more weight at the end of
the year than you could at the beginning
and at times when you're suspicious of
overtraining or overreaching take
occasional D loads at a reduced
frequency volume and load for a week or
two to ensure proper recovery see my
overtraining science explained for more
on that so if you're glute growth has
been stalled apply these sound
scientific principles to your training
and your progress will be better than
ever
alright what's going on guys thank you
so much for watching the video don't
click out just yet first I want to give
Abby a huge shout out and thank her for
helping me out she runs a really
high-quality science-based Fitness
channel herself and also I'm really
excited to announce that I finally
released my glute hypertrophy program
this is actually a full-body program not
just for the glutes so all the
scientific information included in this
video
in my last video is all included in this
manual the glutes are hit four days per
week in the first block and then six
days per week in a second block of the
program upper body is hit two days per
week in both blocks and there are 34
total exercises so lots of variety and
there are links included
or how to do every exercise in the
program and there's a description of how
to deal owed at the end of the program
and then run it consecutively so that
you can keep making progress after the
eight weeks are up so for the first week
of launch I'm going to be running this
program for $19.99 and after that first
week it'll go up to $29.99 and I'll
probably keep it there indefinitely so
if you'd like to check it out now for
the first week of the launch I'm gonna
put a button right here you can go to my
website and check it out I also have it
linked down there in the description I
don't forget to subscribe to my channel
I've got a bunch of other videos a lot
like this one like all my I call them my
science explained videos so you can
check them out in my playlists I don't
forget to like the video if you liked it
and I will see you guys again in a
couple days