hey folks dr mike isrtel here for
renaissance periodization gee that's a
fun word to say it's two words actually
gee whiz i started that video like an
idiot
anyway
quick tips you love them because they
give you tips and they're quick and
you're so busy mean you have a lot of
stuff going on your life you have to
scroll through more youtube videos watch
a couple of older rp videos talk smack
in the comments get on reddit
get on
am i allowed to swear yet scott or is it
too early
go for it
fuck swipe swipe fuck insta fuck
fuckstagram tick tock
tick fuck fuck talk are you guys on fuck
talk i am
in any case cause you're busy i'll just
cut right to the chase today's topic is
training your top priorities first in a
workout
and what we mean is for example if you
want bigger biceps or triceps and you
have an upper body workout and you
really want bigger arms you don't so
much care about your chest and back like
you desperately want big arms which is
the natural state of all human males
it's okay
and in fact a good idea to train your
biceps and triceps
first or very early in the workout and
yes even before you train back and chest
but hold on a second people have been
saying what you want compounds first
before isolations it turns out as dr
brad schoenfeld has actually spoken and
written about at length that the
compounds before isolation's idea is
probably illusory mostly in its entirety
so
you just gotta train first what you're
prioritizing and
there are a couple of reports to this
that are intelligent and need to be
addressed so we'll make sure we're not
doing a stupid thing without looking at
all the counter arguments a lot of folks
will say to hold on a second if i train
my biceps for example first before my
back or my triceps first before my chest
won't that limit the effectiveness of my
chest and back training absolutely it
sure will your back and chest won't grow
as much because they'll be a little
tired or actually your biceps and
practices will be a little tired as the
french say i do speak french yes it's
true and then because your biceps
triceps tired they tend to fail first in
the movement you're back in chester
like when's the workout start stupid
biceps and triceps aren't even pulling
on the fucking tug of war rope anymore
helping me out here so that's definitely
true but remember you want big arms and
you said to yourself it's okay that if
my chest and back don't get maximum
results now you may be wondering how do
i get both my chest and back and my arms
to grow the most well in any one workout
you have to make the choice that you
have to make the choice which one is it
going to be because you can't do two
exercises at the same time
yeah maybe joel seidman can
all in good fun joel but seriously i
think he's got like a squat bicep
combination damn did i just prove my
point wrong fuck
anyway you can't do two exercises at the
same time
in any sense that works and so you have
to pick like is it going to be chest
first or is it going to be triceps first
it's going to be back first or biceps
first and the idea that you have to
train your back first and then train
your biceps and somehow that's going to
prioritize your biceps total bs because
training your back is going to make you
tired systemically if anything and then
when you get to your biceps you're just
not going to be able to produce as much
tension by the local muscle itself and
not stimulating as much hypertrophy now
it's not to say that you can't get big
ass arms training back and chest first
you can but if you really want to put
all of your chips slide them shit's
casino style under the giant arms
section of the table that's my style of
casino by the way wouldn't that be sweet
you get to gamble on your
muscle group train i didn't think that
one through in any case if you really
want to put all your chips into big arms
you're going to want to train them first
or at least very early in the process so
it's totally fine to do something like
this if you're really intent on having
big arms
you can train like a close grip medium
grip bench first hits your chest really
well but also hit the triceps and then
like second exercise fellows
tricep pushdowns okay i have currently
in my training right now i have one day
uh i have two push days one of the days
is like incline uh
smith barbell bench medium grip so it
hits chest and triceps it fries my chest
pretty well triceps it also fries a
little bit the second exercise because
for for me that day is a bit more of a
tricep priority day the second exercise
is push downs
like fucking right away and the third
exercise is dips and someone asked me a
really good question on my instagram
after i posted this workout they were
like hold on a sec why don't you do
incline bench and then dips and then
push downs because aren't your push
downs limiting you on your dips well
they sure are they aren't letting my
chest get as much work as it would
because it's not as fresh triceps are
manufacturer but that's exactly what i
want so it's totally fine to maybe do
like a set of underhand chin ups or
something like that if you really want
your arms to grow first of all they're a
great bicep builder in their own right
but also they'll set your back up
definitely hit your back you can sort of
check off the whole compounds first box
if that's what you're into but the next
exercise should be a curl or something
something to hit your biceps really well
and then you can train the rest of your
back later and interestingly enough not
only does that mean you train biceps
early in the plan and they get a really
good stimulus but all of your back stuff
you do after likely pull downs or rows
your biceps may be a limiting factor and
all of those exercises now train your
biceps a lot because they're more of a
limiting factor than they would be that
still hits your back not in any very
good way so if you really want back
growth do not fucking do that train your
back first but if you really want big
arms you got to train your arms either
first or early right
why
do i make a big stink out of this this
shit seems obvious you may say to
yourself if you say that to yourself
you've thought about this a little while
or you're just unreal smart like of all
the smart people that have ever lived
forrest gump
jenny
jenny scott and i were talking about
this earlier
is force really smarter than jenny
based on like decisional calculus
they've executed throughout life
for us definitely wins that he doesn't
seem so smart
god damn he sure made some great
decisions jenny maybe made all the worst
decisions if you haven't seen forrest
gump you haven't seen the greatest movie
ever fucking made
no cap as young kids say that's legit my
opinion forrest gump is fucking amazing
forrest gump
jenny's smarter just fucking idiot when
it comes to decisions
albert einstein that's right we did skip
all of humanity you okay you've thought
about this before so you're like why the
fuck are we even talking about this
obviously you're supposed to trade shit
first well here's the thing all the time
this happens all the time it happens on
my insta it happens on my fuck swipe it
happens in real life
people complain like man fucking arms
are small bro i gotta get them fucking
bigger and like the the result you know
like if you're asking for advice like
well you know train your arms more and
they say man i have been bro i fucking
put a couple extra sets of bicep curls
at the end of my back and bicep workout
i'm like huh huh so tell me your workout
there all right that rose huh dumbbell
rows uh
pull downs uh
lateral raise got to hit the fucking
delts ah
bicep curls
so you train your biceps when they're
the most fucking tired and you're
basically psychologically checked the
fuck out of the gym anyway
like right
and then you added a set or two to the
end of that dumbass fucking workout that
barely changed your arms at all they're
like
right
you just sunk down
past albert einstein he's like whoa shit
past jenny low point she's like fucking
hair with a needle hanging out of arms
she's like oh there there he goes
right to below forrest gump doing dumb
shit like that so if you're really
serious about prioritizing the shit that
you want
put it early in the workout or first the
workout don't fucking bullshit yourself
does that mean you have kind of fucking
weird workout yes does that mean you
might do like six sets of bicep curls or
two different exercises and then do some
back work yes does that mean that bro at
the gym that doesn't fucking know any
better is like i noticed you fucking do
your bicep work first focus up with that
man compounds first brother have you
been fucking reading read it or i don't
know what bros read and do bros read
what a ridiculous statement he didn't
read anything uh and then you just have
to be like hey cool story bro and he's
like you didn't answer my question
you're just like
yep
that's it
you uh free guide to gym conversation
see you guys next time