you're having trouble sticking to your
diet and I'm Dr Mike iSell of
Renaissance periodization and I'm here
to help you stick to your diet
better how can I possibly help you well
with the first video of a two-part
series on helping you stick to your diet
but how do I know what's wrong with what
is going on with you how do I know why
you're having trouble sticking to your
diet because I've coached a quadrillion
quintilian people or something like that
I've been around for years and years
I've done a trillion diets myself still
traumatized for most of them and sort of
had a hand and building a diet app
that's coached like hundreds of
thousands of people through their diets
so at Renaissance pation where I work
and which YouTube channel you are
watching uh we know a lot about the
kinds of problems people get into and
the kinds of stumbling blocks that
people face in sticking to their diet
plans now this video assumes that you
have a diet plan you've built it out
intelligently and you've really tried to
make it work but for some reason you
fell off the wagon or you hav trouble
sticking and you're like barely holding
on to the roller coaster uh while the
guy with the roller coaster operations
hitting the red stop button but it's not
working we have help for you and in
today's video we will cover 10 reasons
why you may be struggling with your diet
and what to do about them and next time
we will cover 10 more so without further
Ado helpful tips to make sure you're not
doing these bad things and start doing
some good things number one is eating
junk at night I don't know how many
millions of diets have been derailed by
this it's easy to eat well during the
day you wake up have a protein shake
have a healthy lunch dinner's great and
you're watching TV and you're like who
would stop me from eating a bag of
potato chips you look around your
husband's asleep the kids are playing
the hell do kids play nowadays Minecraft
all by themselves bag of chips is all
yours and then you eat the bag of chips
it makes you feel nice half an hour
later you don't feel so nice you step on
the scale the next day and you feel very
not nice because the weight is up and
and you're like oh my God I can't even
fucking do this eating junk at night is
quite common there are a couple of
things you can do about it one is try
not to diet so harshly that you get
hungry enough to have to eat junk at
night so some people decide oh I'm going
to lose weight I'll lose two pounds a
week hold on just try to lose a pound a
week you won't be starving all the time
and you'll actually be able to stick to
your diet another recommendation is this
if you tend to get hungrier at night
which is totally a thing a lot of people
experience what you can do is have less
food in the morning time and afternoon
time and put more of your Healthy
pre-planned diet food into the evening
so for example in the morning instead of
waking up and having eggs and bacon and
oatmeal and whole grain bread and all
that awesome stuff you can totally have
with a well- balanced healthy breakfast
that's part of your diet right the shit
the that's on a cereal box you guys ever
like look at a cereal box and you see
their well balanced breakfast and you're
like yeah the cereal looks good but like
damn look at that look at that fucking
toast that shit looks great and all all
that other like glass of milk glass of
orange juice the fuck are you doing
running a marathon after every breakfast
in any
case if you can you have experience and
you know that like look I get really
hungry at night I just want to eat
everything that's okay have a casan or
way casan blend protein shake for
breakfast it is a very depressing
breakfast however you just filled your
protein requirements and the protein
will be leeching into your bloodstream
for hours on end until lunch and because
a lot of people drink coffee in the
morning as well and a lot of people get
that little fight or flight boost in the
morning from like oh I'm waking up I've
got some energy they typically don't eat
a lot in the morning and they're not
hungry anyway a lot of you guys will eat
healthy breakfast and kind of be stuffed
you don't want to be stuffed for
breakfast that's fucking pointless
because there's not a high probability
you're going to go to work and cheat on
donuts and stuff you got meetings you
got to go into the boss's office
disappear for half an hour come out with
sponge lipstick I don't know what
happened there neither do you who cares
it's all part of the work right what you
can do is
have a protein shake and then for lunch
instead of having a whole bunch of food
have some lean protein like some chicken
have a bit of salad or a lot of salad
and have some source of healthy fat and
then go do your workout after work now
after your workout you might have two
meals coming your way and each one has a
crap ton of protein a crap ton of carbs
and even plenty of fats because you
essentially ate very little but mostly
protein and veggies through the first
part of the day you get to eat more in
the second and the second part of the
day because it adds into the first
overall your whole day is still
constrained to the exact number of
calories that you wanted your activity
is where you wanted thermodynamics
doesn't lie you will absolutely lose
weight over time but in the evenings you
get to eat a ton of food so instead of
looking at that bag of potato chips in
the pantry and Going H I could just do
this you're sitting in front of an
amazing healthy food meal it's 8:00 p.m.
and you still have to finish half of it
and you're like fuck man this is hard
work there's a lot of food to eat all at
once and so by the time you finish that
meal someone's like hey do you want
potato chips you're like that that the
hell for I'm super full that can really
help number two you get bored of diet
foods and go off plan there's only so
much chicken and rice a human being can
eat until they will refuse chicken and
rice totally true the solution to this
is not to go eating junk food because
that's definitely Off plan and
definitely exciting definitely not
boring but definitely not great for your
diet success because too many calories
it doesn't satiate you enough etc etc
etc what you can do instead is try to
liven up your plan by using different
sauces and Seasonings and spices all of
which can be zero or very few calories
use different meat sources for example
use some turkey use some beef
don't just eat chicken use some fish
when you bulk meal prep choose a couple
of proteins a couple different carbs
don't just eat rice try some oats try
some whole grain bread make some
sandwiches to put in the fridge try some
whole grain pasta all that other stuff
different veggies different spices I
mean Thailand exists like go to the
Asian store you know where like most the
employees don't speak English you're the
only white person there but they're
fucking spice rack looks like some kind
of like real life Miracle you're like
what the fuck all this shit is crazy and
then you try it you're like this is the
best thing I've ever tasted why do white
people even bother making food I'm
kidding whites stay calm uh I can only
joke about white people like that
apparently so in any case that's a real
thing just go to the Asian store get
some shit mix it together and
unbelievable and you can go even on the
internet which exists you can Google
recipes you can Google healthy recipes
or you can just Google low calorie
fat-free or low uh zero calorie
flavorings powders Etc you can even just
go to the regular grocery store and go
to the spice and there's all kinds of
different seasonings and sauces you can
use most of them are low no calorie all
of a sudden your your diet food tastes
pretty fucking good and it's different
every single time every few days it
change it up and then you don't get
bored anymore you don't have to pretend
you're in jail and suffer through the
same diet food every day people get on a
diet they're like yeah man it's just
oatmeal and and egg whites every day
every meal what the hell's wrong with
you why would you do that to yourself
number
three some people will just break down
in a fit of hunger and eat everything in
their Pantry that's definitely a thing
the biggest way to combat that of course
the most straightforward is just don't
do it and all the other me tips about
making sure to spread your meals out
intelligently eat your food when you're
hungry like for example at night that
can help a ton as well but the big help
here is this and this is kind of like
the last line of defense just don't have
anything in your pantry other than the
stuff used to meal prep healthy food
okay so what does your pantry look like
does it have Oreos in it does it have
Chee itss does it have all that stuff
why you you're on a diet get rid of that
shit he's just not there anymore so when
you have a panic attack and you go to
The Pantry wide-eyed starving looking
around there's like a container of olive
oil and a bunch of canned chicken breast
and you're like oh okay well sure shit
wouldn't be fun to dip the chicken
breast in olive oil and then you don't
you wake up the next day the lightest
you've ever been feeling lean and sharp
and you're like oh my God thank God I
didn't do that stupid shit thank God I
stuck to the plan number
four you try to snack but you can't eat
just one chip or one cookie and you end
up eating the whole bag or several bags
while crying of
course you don't have to snack when I'm
on a hard diet especially towards the
end of a fat loss plan that really
pushes my Hunger levels I just don't
snack I don't have a single potato chip
or a single cookie for two months that
sounds like it sucks but it's actually
pretty good because after a while you
sort of forget what that shit tastes
like anyway and your own regular boring
diet food you're so hungry now that it
tastes great you know that a cookie or a
cracker or whatever is just just a bit
too much the way I'm going to make this
analogy is going to maybe shock you but
probably not if you've been uh a viewer
of this channel for a while if you
endeavored to do something pointless
like not jacking off for two weeks would
you watch
porn the answer is no if you're
relatively intelligent or just not a
masochist because porn makes you want to
jack off more so if you just don't look
at it then the whole process is easier
if you have potato chip access or cookie
access and you know that one of these
shits will make you want the the rest of
them just don't do the one there's no
Bible somewhere of dieting that says you
have to be living in balance and it's
okay to have one cookie now fit
influencer girls who are having the
emotional maturity of a 13-year-old and
are rediscovering the fact that they
have human agency we'll make blog post
after blog post we'll make insta post
after insta post about how it's okay to
have one cookie it's not going to kill
you dieting is sustainable # LOLOLOL and
it's really just a video of their ass
that's totally cool coming from the
perspective of needless restriction if
you can be a person who eats a cookie
eats a you know a potato chip and can
still not just eat the entire bag
amazing do it but if you're one of those
people that realizes man fuck that that
makes me feel like I want the whole
thing and it makes me suffer more just
don't do
it it takes some discipline not to do
but the easiest part is just don't buy
the
stuff
next related you get hungrier after
eating there are two options for why
this is happen happening to you one is
you're so dieted down to the bone your
diet fatigue is insane that that would
happen for any food and you need to go
transition to maintenance and eat lots
of healthy food for a few weeks to
squash the hunger bug maybe you've just
been dieting for too long the other
option is your diet food is really
really tasty and the reason you want
more of it after you're done eating it
is because it's tasty when you're at the
Chinese buffet or you eating Thai food
it's all Asian stuff or anything else
that's super delicious the reason you
want another
tater tot from Sonic isn't because you
need the tater tot it isn't because
you're not physiologically full you've
been full since the first three bites
you took a fucking Sonic because that
shit has a trillion calories per bite
you are eating it because it makes you
feel happy because it tastes so good
that's why you get hungrier after the
meal because you eat your little tiny
fat loss meal but it you've made it
taste very good you're a great cook
you've been doing everything from tip
number two a little too much um when
you're boarding Off plan you make your
food taste better and now you're getting
Ultra hungry after the meal cuz you're
like I just want more of this fucking
food holy shit there's a solution to
that problem you take your food and you
make it intentionally less tasty what
really yes why is that an effective
strategy because if you eat plain egg
whites and unflavored oatmeal like this
is actually something I learned from my
dad uh back in the day who by the way um
not an expert in diet and nutrition he's
actually an atmospheric physicist by
trade so this is something he discovered
back in Russia way back in the day and I
never forgot it and it rediscovered it
much later in my life when I was
building the theoretical modeling to
justify why this works but he said if
anyone has trouble over eating you tell
them to eat egg whites and unflavored
oatmeal and the unflavored and un
unsweetened is the big deal you may
think you're hungry you may think you
want to eat more after you done get done
eating start on a nice big bowl to your
Macros for that meal egg whites and
oatmeal How far are you going to get the
answer is you may even finish the meal
but afterwards someone's like do you
want more you're going to be like I
would pay good money to never eat that
meal again bad news that meal is coming
up in another 3 hours or a meal very
much like I used to eat sort of plain
boiled chicken with salted oatmeal check
this out with
broccoli all mixed together I would eat
that meal and then 75% way through that
meal by the way I was a very low body
fat I was starving to death I would look
at it and be like I don't want to eat
this anymore I'm not hungry anymore
because physiologically it was enough
food to not make me hungry but the big
biggest part was psychologically it was
not so tasty that I wanted to eat more
of it do you have to go that low at the
bottom of the food palatability reward
ladder of the honic staircase of eating
you don't you don't have to go that low
but you can ratchet up and down to make
sure you're eating the appropriate
amount and feeling nice and full so for
example if you're on a mass gaining
phase your food should taste very good
because you want to eat a lot of it and
not be in a situation where you're
halfway done and you're like I can't eat
this shit anymore but as you get into
maintenance your food should on average
taste a little bit worse worse be pler
is a better way to put it and then as
you get deeper and deeper into fat loss
phase you can make your food
progressively taste very very very plain
to the point where eating is just
something like uh you do like a machine
uh think about this way if you guys have
seen that uh actually excellent Star
Wars uh show Andor Andor I think it's
called he goes to spoilers the show's
been out for a fucking year so fuck you
uh feel free to mute me for the next bit
he goes to a Super Jail which is awesome
I've always just dying to go to a
galactic super Super Jail with tons of
different species and stuff it would be
amazing but he gets to do that lucky him
but like in his room there's just like a
tube of food stuff that he can suck on
no other way to say that and uh he gets
his nutrition and like if his team
builds their machines they're building
and they're slave labor the fastest that
day or that week um they get flavor in
their food nobody gaining weight at that
fucking prison you feel me nobody is
over fat because if you just get
unflavored food pumped into you and it's
the same food every day you're unlikely
to overeat it you could eat enough of it
not to lose weight if you were
grotesquely thin and dyed into the bone
but then we come back to that other part
where if everything tastes amazing even
awful food it's time for you to stop
dying and take a maintenance
break number
six you cheat on your diet because your
weight didn't decline from last week to
this week or even went up a little bit
you were 141 you were 140 and then you
were 143 and you said fuck it the diet's
clearly not working so I'm going to
cheat let me tell you about the
psychology that eludes you into making
this
decision what happens
is you are frustrated with a lack of
progress we've all been
there is cheating and eating a bunch of
junk going to fix that problem no so why
does your brain automatically recommend
it as the next best thing to do because
your brain brain through its ancestral
evolved neural network mechanisms has
surfaced a few thoughts and preferences
and desires to be just under your
conscious awareness when sometimes they
bubble into Consciousness it's got them
queued up and ready for the next shit
you should be trying to do because it's
trying to remind your dumbass to stay
alive and it thinks you're starving so
as soon as you don't meet your goals you
just do this exacerbated like
frustration thing like oh fuck it fuck
it it's not working
you say I'm just going to eat junk the
junk isn't to solve the problem the
frustration has made you give up on your
approximate goals of eating in a
sequenced logical manner those are gone
in your mind for now your mind is a bit
blank what automatically surfaces in if
you're just saying fuck it to this plan
what do you want to do well by default
your brain's like hey idiot you're like
yes eat a bunch of junk it'll be great
and you're like oh that's a fucking
great idea now a lot of times what ends
up happening in human psychology is our
brains tell us to do all kinds of stuff
and then we rationalize on top of that
very subconsciously and build a story
for ourselves so we say well you know
the diet didn't work so I'm just going
to eat junk because um you know like my
body needs food or because fuck it like
who cares that's not really why you're
doing it in a sense it is but in a real
sense your brain always wanted you to do
this shit anyway and you know that's
that's the kind of shit that uh was was
was there for the taking there's a scene
from fuck what's that shit called The
Witcher where they're like uh the evil
people are invading and these uh
centrans or whatever are all in their
camps because they were displaced by the
war and there's this uh Rich old lady
that's really mean to her little person
servant and at some point the people are
coming in to kill them all and the
little person servant just has had
enough and he like stabs her in the back
and kills her that's not in my view
because she did something proximately
that really pissed him off more than
every other time she's a super big bitch
to him but I think it's cuz he thought
well fuck it we're all going to die
anyway I've been wanting to kill this
bitch for years you've you've been
wanting to eat cheat food for weeks and
weeks and weeks and when you have a
frustrating episode that's your uh
body's or your brain's excuse to be like
hey hey sweet oh this isn't working
great thank god let's just eat the cheat
food like we always wanted that's why it
happens people say well I hate the cheat
food and it's what my body needed and it
resets my metabolism that's all straight
up bullshit it's all fucking lies it's
your brain telling you to cheat cuz it's
like hey we're off the clock let's do
the thing we want it anyway so if that's
the case just think through that process
and understand that you are a
goal-directed person and you have a a
lot of options if somebody is in a
fighter jet testing the systems and he
fires the missile and it doesn't work he
doesn't rip the fucking joystick out he
doesn't inject out of the fucking $68
million plane and have it crash to the
ground he doesn't just Abandon Ship
what's that other idea um you know like
one of your tires goes flat on the road
so you poke holes in the other four
tires that's what you're doing don't do
that so just understand that cheating on
your diet is only reserved for an
emotional thing it's only emotions the
logical thing to do if you don't lose
weight is one of two things one is just
wait longer keep doing your diet body
water fluctuations are a real thing you
weighed 143 today that sucks 2 pounds up
apparently nothing is working fuck it
alcha my diet wait no I won't I'm going
to wait two or three more days and do
the same diet that fucking gnarly
perseverance that makes you Unstoppable
that I don't care if I'm losing I'm
still competing 2 or 3 days later you
hit 1387 and you're like oh my fucking
God I'm fucking back it was always
working it was just the body water that
was masking the other option is you say
well fuck another week in I haven't lost
any weight time to cut my macros a bit
or do more activity why because you want
to get into the teeth you want it to be
hard you want to earn that shit because
you want to lose the fat you can cheat
anytime you want you don't even have to
dieet it's fucking voluntary 90 99.999%
of our viewers which includes you are in
a modern free economy that have access
to almost everything they ever want and
this dieting is just purely for vanity
at this point so who gives a shit you
give a shit so stick to the plan number
seven very related people will cheat if
they can't be perfect on their diet
they'll go to some restaurant with their
friends they won't find chicken broccoli
and rice on the menu so they say fuck it
I'll just have like two pizzas hold on a
sec what's better going completely
psychotically off plan or just trying to
do the best that you can and having
mostly a huge
win cheating when you can't be perfect
on your plan is the analogical almost
literal equivalent of two soccer teams
meeting one is ranked much higher than
the
other the high rank soccer team plans to
go 10 and0 against the other team
they're 8 and0 and the other team scores
a a Wild goal on a penalty or something
it's 8 to one here's the analogy just
the same ways you'd go to restaurant not
find anything ideal on the menu and just
say fuck it I'll take two pizzas it's
the same idea as this team being like w
fuck we got 30 minutes on the car we got
17 minutes on the clock fuck it no
defense no offense players just going to
smoke cigarettes on the side uh we just
everyone go to the bench and the other
team's like are you fucking serious like
yeah shoot on goal who cares if we can't
have a perfect game we can't have a game
at all so NE other team racks up 19
points and uh and then they win
why the fuck would you do that what you
can do is say well fuck hey fellas
huddle I don't know if they do huddles
in soccer we do huddles in American
football godd damn it that's God's game
in any case you huddle up you say look
okay we didn't get our perfect game but
who gives a shit we're still the fucking
shit we're 8 to one why don't we do like
uh keep going and do the best we can in
the scenario let's finish on a 9 to1 10
to1 11 to1 that's still awesome who's
going to write a newspaper headline they
like oh you know like sainsbury Saints
couldn't go 10 and0 against their
opponent like no they're going to write
the article be like oh the opponent gets
one goal but here's the real score and
they still suck you're still winning so
if you go to a restaurant and there's a
dish that's like pretty clean has a
sauce that's optional on the side as
pasta and chicken and a bunch of veggies
no it's not exactly your meal that you
wanted and it might be a little bit
larger and a few more calories but if
you have that you may be eating 50
calories or 150 calories more than you
planned that still puts you in a daily
deficit you're still fucking winning
you're still winning just by a smaller
margin who gives a shit A win's a win
versus if you eat two pizzas you're in a
surplus you just pissed away two or 3
days of dieting all for nothing so again
if you're behind fight for that last
inch if you're behind and you just quit
and let it all
go you know why you're doing it though
because subconsciously your body wants
you to quit anyway because it's like
stop starving me but you are a fucking
grown adult you are a awoken awakened
awake conscious person that makes
fucking decisions that impact their life
as opposed to the brain being like do
this do that cuz like if you just listen
to what your brain tells you by default
you're going to be a drug addict really
soon there's no other way to state
that number eight travel throws you off
it's easy to stay on the diet when I'm
at home but as soon as I get to
traveling and I travel a lot for work
I'm out in the Free World and I'm just
fucking eating fuck all very similar
answer here to point number seven do
your best when you're traveling and if
it's really hard to maintain a deficit
just eat at maintenance and if you can't
calculate what maintenance is just eat
mostly healthy foods and don't don't pig
out completely on junk try to get full-
on healthy foods when you're at the
airport and you're at the shop before
you stop on the flight buy a bunch of
high protein stuff get a sandwich get
some jerky get some fruits like apples
and stuff get some Diet Sprites put that
in your bag you're on the airplane
you're fucking Gucci if six hour flight
you're having clean food the entire time
as opposed to Throwing It All Away and
being like fuck it I'm just going to
order 10 meals in this airplane oh also
they have McDonald's before I get to my
gate I'm going to have that shit too why
again it's that same psychological thing
where your mind in and and encounters a
difficulty with the current plan but
underneath it's like hey this plan sucks
it's going to starve us to death right
and the evolutionary logic's like yes
that's right why don't we surface to
them the idea that anything at fault we
quit and we go eat junk that's what's
really going on don't let it happen try
to do your best a plan I have that I've
executed very well before is this when
you travel ancillary macros get in the
way it's very hard to get pure carbs
pure protein pure fats right like you
have at home with your chicken your rice
your peanut butter Etc so when you
travel there's going to be some ant
Slayers getting in there what I try to
do is when I travel and I'm trying to
push it hard usually when I travel I
just go to maintenance and eat mostly
healthy and I just don't gain or lose so
that week just is no steps back no steps
forward I restart the next week with my
fat loss diet it's amazing it actually
reduces some Diet fatigue it's awesome
it works really well but if you still
want to grind through what I do is high
protein High veggie low everything else
and then usually that actually takes me
under my uh macros goal and I make even
more progress on vac
because usually you got like plenty of
carbs and plenty of fats in a well
organized plan but if you're traveling
you know some things has some more fats
in it and more carbs various meals you
just eat like almost keto you do high
protein veggies wherever you can and you
minimize extra carbs and fats so you you
go to Chinese food you get some beef and
broccoli no
rice that kind of sucks you'd prefer not
to eat chainese food in that case is
something cleaner but it really does
work have a lot of protein bars have
protein shakes and have tons of veggies
occasionally what I'll do also is for my
carbs I'll just rely on whole fresh
fruit you only eat so many apples it's
sure shit easier to get a ton of
carbohydrates from pasta than it is from
apples if you are in that sort of
situation then you make the best out of
it and you end up actually having really
really good results it's tough but it
fucking works number nine is looking
forward you've done four weeks of
dieting already and you have some good
results but you look forward and you're
like oh my God I have eight fucking
weeks left and that can be like really
posing the idea that you have 8 weeks or
6 weeks or even four weeks left of hard
dieting especially like when you have
four weeks left when you've dieted for
let's say 8 weeks you're pretty hungry
you're pretty tired you're pretty over
the whole whole process you think I have
to do this for one whole month holy shit
it can be imposing my best suggestion to
you is just take it one day at a time
forget the end even exists this is a
really interesting mental exercise to
try but basically try to think for a
second that you're never getting out
you're dieting forever this is your new
life there is no hope abandon it every
day you have your diet food every day
you lift every day you try to enjoy for
what it is you're in Galactic Super Jail
you're never getting out are you really
going to hope for the future and be
frustrated why the fuck would you do
that that's insane that's something an
insane person would do as a matter of
fact in modern interrogation techniques
which is psychological torture for spies
and terrorists and stuff well at least
in the Western World in the other part
of the world less developed World they
just beat the fucking shit out of you
and pull your teeth out your fingernails
and all that kind of crazy shit but in
the Western World They Don't Really
typically do that anymore what they do
is this they give you a really bad
situation they keep you in a dark room
in a really uncomfortable box they play
heavy metal
music training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same that stuff gets you ready to crack
but here's the really thing that makes
you crack they come in when you're at
your worst when you really want out and
they promise you something better they
say listen just tell us what you know
we'll get you a comfy chair we'll get
you some hot food we'll get you some
water we'll turn this fucking crazy
music off we'll have a nice black
conversation do you want a cigarette
have a cigarette this is actually really
well Illustrated in uh what the fuck is
that movie uh I was going to say Gone in
30 seconds Zero Dark 30 which to me as a
title makes no sense at all but I
haven't looked into it Zero Dark 30
great movie otherwise but this is really
well Illustrated here's why this
works if you get a hardened fucking
terrorist or spy or whatever especially
spy they will get into this dark place
where they go I don't care I'm dead fuck
you I'm ready to suffer I don't care if
I have to live in a fucking jail cell
the rest of my life that is a reality
that your brain can actually accept your
your brain your mind does really really
awesome things when it is hit with a
stark reality you'd be surprised how
tough you are but if you give someone
that promise of something better the
brain really likes to look look at it so
when it looks at you have four weeks
left your brain goes four weeks left
four weeks imagine how much food I could
eat imagine how great my life is going
to be imagine how no no more hunger no
more cardio and that overwhelming
feeling of what's to come reminds you
that that can happen today you can stop
the diet today and the temptation to
stop is so much stronger but what you
can do instead is just intellectually
put that off limits you know what how
many days I have left on my diet I got a
iPhone for that it's going to remind me
of the diet is over I don't care I'm
here to do my diet one day at a time
every meal is their etched in stone I
don't have a choice I'm here forever and
if you just take your mind and become
essentially at peace accept your fate of
difficult dieting your brain's like put
the goldilock stuff at the end of the
rainbow no and you're like No And it's
like all right fuck it and then you just
kind of live day by day and
interestingly enough you can start to
get some really cool meditation type
shit going you like hear the birds more
you you appreciate how beautiful your
neighborhood is more you take more walks
you listen to more music you do more
podcasts stuff that doesn't revolve
around food because your brain's like
fuck it I guess we're not doing food
anymore whatever who cares and then when
you end your diet you can almost have
the sensation of like wow my diet is
over I did great and someone's like what
do you want to eat what do you want to
cheat with you're like I I don't know I
don't care because I'm so at peace with
this process it's tough to get there but
I I I I say it's absolutely worth trying
lastly this is a big one
not seeing any changes in the mirror you
look in the mirror after a week or two
or three you look maybe better maybe the
same and you look man fuck this fuck it
why if I'm trying so hard and I'm not
seeing any changes should I keep trying
let me just quit now hold on a sec I
have something to tell you before you
quit shit that's hard but it's worth it
usually takes two things hard work and a
lot of time and if you dip out before
you start seeing the
changes how do you know that you're not
going to see changes later
that other guy from from work bill you
never like Bill fucking cocky asshole
pretty boy motherfucker he comes in and
you know he lost over the summer 18
pounds he looks different he looks
better and there you know everyone
surrounds Bill they're like how did you
do it he's like well our Renaissance
diet RP diet coach app like fucking bill
stupid corporate interest the hell is
Renaissance anyway I thought that was
like an era that was over in the 1700s
in any
case Bill talks about having dieted hard
for 12 weeks Bill never quit what are
you thinking to yourself right now
you're like fuck bill but then you're
like wait a minute I had an opportunity
to do this during the summer too and I
quit after week two maybe Bill also
didn't see results after week two but
somehow he just kept going so if you
don't see changes in the mirror very
rapidly trust the process I know
everyone says that and I don't mean
trust like in faith don't take it on
faith I wouldn't take much of anything
on faith really understand ther dynamics
that you have generated a caloric
deficit and that there's a very very
tiny percent chance that you're not
going to lose a whole bunch of fat but
understand that body water and all this
other stuff and the way the human mind
lies to you when you look at stuff
because your brain gets used to looking
at stuff if you look at yourself every
day in the mirror it's like same same
same same same and it can't really
detect the changes you finish a 12we
diet where you look unbelievable and
super different your brain's like yeah
you look a little different and then one
of your friends sees you and they're
like holy fucking shit you look un
unbelievable you look unreal W so I do
very good so when you look in the mirror
don't look for much the mirror isn't
going to be a super good guide to you
especially early in the dining process
later when you look amazing it can be a
really good motivator when you start a
diet first two three weeks four weeks
you can look in the mirror all you want
but honestly it's not telling you much
of anything you stick to a fucking plan
stick to the plan right it's like
driving to the Battlefront in your mega
tank to fight the Alien Invasion horde
there's 10 miles away where the aliens
are to shoot them you're 1 mile in 2
miles in 3 miles in don't be like ah
looks like the aliens didn't show up to
fight today I guess we won cuz your tank
tank Captain is going to be like dude
are you out of your fucking mind shut up
and man the gun aliens are right over
that fucking Mountain it's weird to look
in the mirror and be like nah nothing's
happening and just quit all the good
stuff is happening under the hood first
of all and second of all most of the
changes you'll see in the second half of
your diet so stick with it look in the
mirror or don't and be like yeah
whatever I know that what I'm doing is
working underneath the hood because I've
used the RP diet coach app to get me the
results God damn it buy my app please
I'm running out of money and I can't
stand to be poor ever again what anyway
guys thank you so much for tuning in and
we'll see you next time for the next
round 10 more tips to make sure you
stick to your diet and don't fall off
the
wagon