a few years ago a bodybuilder a friend
of mine from the gym told me it's really
important that I do squats deadlifts and
other heavy compound exercises because
they boost testosterone more than light
weight movements or machine exercises
and it turns out in a way he was right
it's long been established that
resistance exercise increases serum
concentrations of hormones like
testosterone growth hormone and igf-1
and foundational research from the 1990s
and early 2000s led by dr. bill Kramer
showed that the higher the training in
tension so training with heavier loads
and the more muscle mass involved in the
exercise so training with compound
movements for example the more
testosterone increase you see and the
reasoning from there was fairly
straightforward since we know that
testosterone is anabolic aiming to
increase it acutely should be weighted
pretty heavily when it comes to
designing an effective hypertrophy
focused training program and naturally I
went on believing for several years that
the reason why the style of training was
so effective for me was that it was
jacking up my testosterone it wasn't
until later that I realized that the
level of testosterone increased seen
with these training modifications just
isn't enough to increase muscle growth
on its own and that this heavy compound
strategy is most likely effective for a
different reason it induces progressive
tension overload and activates a large
volume of musculature with the modest
testosterone increase being a mere
side-effect so to speak and this is the
more consensus view in the current
scientific literature as more recent
data from Western colleagues out of
McMaster University concluded that post
exercise increases and these hormones
cannot be used as proxy markers for
hypertrophic potential in humans a
liitle muscle and if you just look at
some of their data it's clear that
despite the fact that testosterone did
increase with the training protocol that
emphasised high intensity and large
muscle masses there was no difference in
muscle protein synthesis between the
groups and just keep in mind that the
increases in testosterone were acute
meaning they didn't get elevated from
the training and stay elevated they
simply spiked up and then came back down
after an hour which seems almost
definitely not enough of a chronic
hormonal shift to do much for muscle
growth so reading this made me curious
how much of an increase you'd need to
see gains from it so let's talk some
numbers according to a 2017 paper a
harmonized normal range for healthy non
obese American and European men aged 19
to 30 nine years old is 264 to 900
sixteen nanograms per deciliter and it's
not clear if increasing testosterone
naturally within this range will do much
in the way of increasing muscle mass
however we do know that increasing it
through exogenous testosterone
supplementation does increase muscle
mass in fact it might increase muscle
mass better than training alone does a
landmark 1996 paper published in the New
England Journal of Medicine split 40 men
into one of four groups Group one
trained naturally group two took 600
milligrams of testosterone every week
and weight trained group three took 600
milligrams of testosterone every week
but did not weight training group 4 with
the placebo group they didn't train or
inject testosterone the training program
is a little weird just four sets of six
reps on the squat and bench press three
times a week for ten weeks but some of
the results were pretty shocking
the group that injected testosterone and
trains unsurprisingly the most gains and
the placebo group saw unsurprisingly the
worst gains however what may surprise
some people is that injecting 600
milligrams of testosterone per week led
to a greater increase in muscle mass
without any resistance training and
resistance training naturally did of
course if more of an optimized training
routine were provided the results may
have favored the trained and natural
group more however based on this study
alone what we can say is that
testosterone really works
however just look at the scale of
increase we're talking about here at
baseline the concentrations were just
around 500 and after 10 weeks of weekly
injections they were up around 3,000
nanograms per deciliter that's an
enormous increase magnitudes greater
than the acute changes you've seen from
altering training methods which only
lasts acutely anyway but what I really
wanted to know was would going from 600
to say 800 make any difference or better
still would altering these levels
anywhere within the natural normal
physiological range help me get more
jacked and after scouring the literature
on this the best answer I can give is
maybe it seems really likely that
increasing a low testosterone level of
say around 300 nanograms per deciliter
or lower to a more average level like
say 600 nanograms per deciliter might
help boston and colleagues were able to
show that even in the absence of weight
range increasing testosterone levels
from 306 to 570 nanograms per deciliter
across 20 weeks led to a pretty big
increase in fat
math as measured by hydrostatic weighing
DEXA of about three kilograms for about
six and a half pounds so going from a
hype of genetic level of 300 or less to
a more normal range would almost
certainly help however it's unclear
whether or not going from a more middle
of normal range to a more high end of
normal range would do much so since
we've already debunked the idea that
acute increases around the training
session does much of anything the next
thing I wanted to figure out whether
there are other ways I could increase my
testosterone naturally and since we're
on the topic of training it does seem
that overtraining is a bad idea to give
you some idea over training the
literature has been defined as any
increase in training volume and/or
intensity resulting in long term
performance detriment and it turns out
that if you overdo it too much for too
long testosterone drops off and over
doing training volume is worse for
testosterone than over doing training
intensity a study by Frey at all showed
that doing 10 1 rep max squats every day
for two weeks
didn't change testosterone
concentrations however multiple studies
have found that large increases in
volume reduces testosterone and such as
the case when combining weight training
with endurance training according to the
most recent work by Jones ita√∫ it seems
that combining strength and endurance
training in the same session three days
per week for six weeks doesn't
significantly decreased testosterone
compared to strength training alone
however this is in contrast to earlier
research that did report a testosterone
decrease when combining weights and
cardio so it seems that if you're simply
doing too much training volume when
combining the two then physiological
stress will increase to a point past
which endocrine changes favour
catabolism namely a dip in testosterone
and a spike in cortisol so to reduce
this effect try to stick to lower
intensity cardio performed at a low to
moderate frequency with shorter
durations as much as you can
assuming your primary goal is muscle and
strength II so what about diet isn't soy
really bad for testosterone levels not
really the most comprehensive
meta-analysis on this topic which
analyzed 32 studies came to the general
conclusion that neither soy foods nor
isoflavone supplements alter measures of
bioavailable testosterone concentrations
in men for something more tangible
examined calm states that one to two
servings of soy food daily in less than
25 grams of soy protein from non
concentrated sources doesn't impact
testosterone and only seems to adversely
affect testosterone when super loaded
and soy protein concentrate even when
highly
probably doesn't affect testosterone
because of its negligible isoflavone
content which are the compounds in soy
that bind to the estrogen receptors to
begin with but more to the point it
seems that the main dietary factors
driving changes in testosterone are body
composition and caloric intake in a
twelve-months case study following a
natural bodybuilders during contest prep
it was found that as his caloric intake
went from four thousand seven hundred
and fifty calories to twenty one hundred
calories per day taking his body fat
from 14.8 to just four point five
percent to testosterone plummeted from
nine ninety one nanograms per deciliter
to just 227 nanograms per deciliter
that's a seventy seven percent decrease
rapid weight loss can also decrease
testosterone a 2008 study on competitive
wrestlers found that just two to three
weeks of caloric deficit caused a pretty
huge sixty-two percent decrease in
testosterone when caloric intake was
limited to five hundred to a thousand
calories per day on the flipside since
overweight individuals tend to have
lower testosterone in chronic
overfeeding has been shown to reduce
testosterone there seems to be a sweet
spot in terms of body fatness and
caloric intake that will be specific to
the individual but by my estimation
sitting somewhere between ten to fifteen
percent body fat will be a healthy spot
to optimize testosterone levels for most
men the macro nutrient composition of
the diet also seems to matter with high
fat diets generally outperforming low
fat diet however it seems that total
energy intake is likely the main driver
of these changes and I personally think
that as long as your fats are somewhere
in the normal range of say 20 to 40
percent of caloric intake testosterone
levels can be optimized there's also a
slight trend toward saturated fat
increasing testosterone more than other
fats so including some saturated fat and
sufficient fat generally may help in
optimizing testosterone however keep in
mind that the magnitude of these changes
are relatively small with one study
showing a low fat diet to reduce
testosterone by twelve percent in older
men and another study showing a higher
fat diet increased testosterone by
thirteen percent in young the vitamin
and mineral composition of the diet also
matters but more so in the case of
deficiencies for example a zinc
deficiency can lower testosterone so be
sure to eat plenty of foods rich in zinc
like meat and shellfish beans and
not vitamin D can also regulate
testosterone levels so depending on how
much sun exposure you get
supplementation of up to 3000 IU per day
can increase testosterone there are
other supplements that generally have
weak evidence supporting them such as
the aspartic acid but it only seems to
work for 6 to 12 days before levels just
go back to normal and it isn't
associated with any body composition
images
ashwagandha has one study showing a 15%
testosterone increase in young healthy
men but the evidence is otherwise
non-existent other supplements like
tribulus horny goat weed and fenugreek
have no evidence no human evidence and
conflicting evidence respectively for
these reasons I wouldn't focus on
natural supplementation for boosting
testosterone so what are the lifestyle
factors like sleep
stress and sex while the correlation is
not as strong as I would have expected
decreased sleep has been associated with
decreased testosterone while one 2011
study found that reducing sleep from
eight hours to five hours per night for
five days reduced testosterone by ten
point four percent in young men a later
2012 study found that reducing sleep
from ten hours to four hours for five
days noted only a trend for reduced
testosterone that didn't reach
statistical significance on the other
hand sleep deprivation for 33 hours
straight resulted in a 27% average drop
in testosterone in 24 young men sexual
activity seems to play an important role
in testosterone regulation one study
published in the Journal of evolution in
human behavior showed that simply having
a five-minute conversation with an
attractive woman was able to boost
testosterone by thirty percent in men
other research has shown that sexual
arousal from viewing pornographic films
can increase testosterone secretion and
meant one study showing that watching a
four-minute erotic video clip before
training significantly improved 3 rep
max strength on the squat the quote
freshness of one's relationship also
seems to matter with a 2015 paper
showing that single men and men in a new
relationship which was defined as
lasting less than 12 months had
significantly higher testosterone than
men in long-term relationships and other
earlier research showed that both men
and women with polyamorous relationships
or who have multiple committed
relationships have higher testosterone
than single folks with singly partnered
individuals having the lowest
testosterone of all of course it's
important to keep in mind before you've
dumped your main squeeze or pick up a
new one that were simply looking at
correlations it seems to me that it
could be the case that men and women
with higher testosterone are just
more likely to want or to be in multiple
relationships not necessarily that
having multiple partners increases
testosterone while that remains a strong
possibility given the variety and
lifestyle preferences on this front
perhaps the most generalizable advice is
to have regular sex since testosterone
increases after evening coitus in both
men and women while on evenings with no
intercourse testosterone decreases as
the night goes by and for the record
ejaculation by itself isn't associated
with changes in testosterone since the
actual ejaculatory process is regulated
by serotonin and nitric oxide not
testosterone other things worth
mentioning that can optimize
testosterone levels include East
wrestling as much as possible such as by
meditating and relaxing and avoiding
excessive alcohol intake which has been
shown to reduce testosterone and so
while barring exogenous hormonal
supplementation all of these methods may
not be enough to drastically improve
your gains on their own
perhaps combining several of the actions
discussed could make a significant
enough impact on your gym performance
and physique to make it worthwhile
[Music]
alright what is going on everyone first
of all I just want to say thank you so
much for watching the video I put a lot
of energy into creating this one in a
way that was not only information-packed
but also hopefully entertaining to watch
and I want to give a quick shout out to
Squarespace for sponsoring this video in
case you guys aren't aware Squarespace
is an all-in-one website platform that
allows you to custom create your own
website that's easy to use with
beautiful designer templates and 24/7
customer service and I'm really excited
about this partnership because I've
personally been using Squarespace for
two years to run my own website and my
own online coaching business so if you
guys would like to get started with your
free trial and building your own website
or setting up your own online store you
can do so today at squarespace.com by
using the offer code Nippert which will
save you 10% off your first purchase and
I also want to give a huge shout out to
you guys and thank you for your
continued support that's because of your
guys support that I'm able to have the
opportunity to work with companies like
Squarespace so once again thanks for
watching the video leave it a thumbs up
if you liked it subscribe to the channel
if you haven't already and I'll see you
guys in the next one