welcome to the house of hypertrophy are
you missing out on maximum muscle growth
if three specific exercises are not in
your training program what three
exercises the squat bench press and
deadlift often called The Big Three they
are some of the most popular exercises
ever these movements play an integral
part in numerous training programs such
as the famous starting strength program
some state to these exercises are
irreplaceable for building muscle but is
this true do the squat bench press and
deadlift possess unique traits that make
them Superior for evoking muscle
hypertrophy fortunately a range of
scientific studies provide answers let
us dive in starting with an excellent
brand new study from Spain
[Music]
36 trained men were assigned into either
a free weight or machine group the
freeway group trained the barbell back
Squad bench press prone row and seated
overhead press the machine group
performs corresponding machine exercises
a hex squat chest press seated row and
machine shoulder press the deadlift
wasn't involved in this study we'll
Circle back to this later each exercise
was performed for three sets a session
three times a week with these loads
across eight weeks
each lifting repetition was performed
with a maximal intended speed and the
researchers tracked the velocity of the
Reps subjects performed their reps each
set up until their velocity had slowed
down by 20 based on prior research this
likely resulted in subjects performing
50 of the maximum repetitions per set it
was ultimately found growth of the
quadriceps measured at the 30 and 60
region was similar between both the free
weight and machine groups
growth of the pectoralis major and
rectus abdominus was also similar
between both groups
thus this study indicates free weights
and that includes barbell squats and
bench presses were not Superior to
machine alternative for growing the
muscles measured this is just one study
but we have additional studies comparing
squats and bench press's two
Alternatives what are their findings let
us speed through them and find out
[Music]
this paper from Belgium had previously
untrained men perform either a freeway
only machine only or combined program
the freeway group trained the barbell
back squat dumbbell bench press and
deadlift the researchers looked at how
the training impacted circumference
gains for the chest thigh and upper arm
technically none of these measurements
are really relevant to the deadlift in
any case circumference increases for all
regions were similar between all three
groups now circumference isn't a precise
measure of muscle growth but we do have
this other study out of Canada 36
trained individuals trained either a
free weight or machine only program we
can see the freeway group trained the
barbell back squat bench press and stiff
leg a deadlift the machine grouped
involved some Smith machine Alternatives
like a Smith machine squads the
researchers looked at how training
impacted quadriceps and biceps growth so
again none of these measurements are
really relevant to the deadlift or even
bench press nonetheless quadriceps and
biceps gains were ultimately Sim similar
between both groups overall these two
studies further support the idea free
weights aren't Superior to machine
alternatives for growth of the measured
muscles even bodyweight movements like
push-ups can be highly effective for
muscle hypertrophy this paper from Japan
demonstrates this 18 trained men either
performed High Reps to failure on the
barbell bench press or a bodyweight
push-up variation
some may be questioning the use of High
Reps in this study but we've previously
seen at the house of hypertrophy that
reps approximately between 6 and 35 can
be similarly effective for building
muscle provided the reps are performed
two or very close to failure which was
accomplished in this paper it was found
chest and triceps growth was comparable
between both exercises another
interesting study from the USA recruited
23 men with some training experience a
bench press group performed the exercise
for three sets in the six to eight rep
range and aimed to increase the load
they trained within this rep range
across the weeks a push-up group
performed three sets and progressed
through performing harder push-up
variations both groups experienced
average chest growth and the percentages
actually favor the push-up group it's
difficult to say if this is a real
effect none of the gains in this study
were statistically significant likely
because the study only lasted four weeks
it's his possible the push-up group just
had subjects with slightly average
better muscle building genetics
nonetheless I would say this study
demonstrates the barbell bench evidently
isn't Superior
so it seems free weights including
barbell squats and bench presses are not
better muscle Builders compared to
Alternatives in other words many roads
may lead you to the same destination
regardless of what path you take our
high quality partner Alpha progression
can help you create track and evolve
your hypertrophy and or strength
training with multiple valuable features
it serves all experience levels they're
incredibly flexible generator can tailor
a program to your desires in less than
three minutes specify the equipment you
have how often and long you want to
train for and if you want to focus or
neglect certain muscles there are over a
quadrillion input combinations on which
your pen is based and the training
philosophy is derived from meta-analyzes
and systematic reviews once the workout
is generated you can even deploy
supersets or drop sets Graphics unveil
your long-term progress from your
strength progression the consistency of
workouts and even the number of sets
performed per muscle there is a database
with over 550 exercises scrolling
through you may discover exercise
variations you never knew existed the
link in the comments and description
gives you two weeks free of all the
app's premium features and if you like
it and go beyond you'll get 20 off a
subscription we'll never promote trash
at the house of hypertrophy I sincerely
believe the app is nothing short of
exceptional the apps reviews Echo this
[Music]
none of the studies truly compared to
muscle building effects of the deadlift
to other exercises but based on the
research behind what stimulates muscle
hypertrophy I would argue there's no
reason to believe the deadlift is
essential as thoroughly dissected
previously at the house of hypertrophy
contrary to unfortunate widespread
belief that evidence demonstrates muscle
damage and the buildup of metabolites
are clearly not strong or primary
drivers of muscle growth rather
mechanical tension seems to be the
primary hypertrophy stimulus what is
this within the Deep depths of your
muscle tissue a contractile Machinery
that generate force that is tension
throughout the muscle tissue our
mechanosensors that can detect the
tension and convert the tension into a
signal that produces muscle hypertrophy
tension is tension it can be achieved
with barbells dumbbells machines and
even body weights provided you're
performing a body movement that will
recruit the desired muscle and you
perform repetitions too or very close to
failure high tension overall will be
achieved lighter weights can also
achieve high tension simply by ensuring
you're performing reps with a lighter
weight two or very close to failure
after this video feel free to check out
our in-depth video where we describe
mechanical tension in Greater detail
[Music]
in summary the scientific literature
indicates the barbell squat bench press
and conventional deadlift aren't
essential for maximizing hypertrophy
alternative exercises can produce
comparable muscle growth it's imperative
to recognize I'm not saying you
shouldn't train barbell squats bench
presses or conventional deadlifts if you
want to train any of these that's
absolutely fine the research reviewed in
this video demonstrates these movements
are highly effective for building muscle
it's just that the key point is you can
experience similar gains from
alternative exercises
now I will say with the conventional
deadlift they're frequently reported as
being very fatiguing and requiring
longer recovery periods as we've seen
previously at the house of hypertrophy
the overall current evidence actually
fails to support the notion that
deadlift is more fatiguing versus other
exercises yet as I mentioned in that
video this is only based on two studies
so more data is needed but if the
deadlift is truly more taxing then I
think you could make the case there's
better options if your goal is to build
muscle perhaps a trap bar deadlift
variation or perhaps you want to avoid
loading the spinal altogether and focus
on performing movements like Legos and
hip thrusts
nonetheless constructing a program where
you train with some exercise variation
can of course be done it's entirely
plausible for you to construct a program
where you train both barbell squats and
machine squat variations
remember to feel free to check out the
alpha progression app and or check out
our ultimate guides on developing the
side and rear delts