and while you're doing this exercise you
want to make sure that the body doesn't
sway back and forth you want to make
sure you keep your core engaged if
somebody says keep your core engaged one
more time you're gonna be honest man I
didn't want this to sound mean but the
guy just has no clue what's going on
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike desertel creator
of the RP hypertrophy app and a
professor of exercise and Sport Science
at Lehman College in the Bronx in New
York City I have a PhD in sport
physiology which is exactly the science
of taking great athletes and making them
the best that they can be so Mr Tom
Brady you're going to be looking at your
weight training today and finding out
how sciencey it really is roll camera
[Applause]
am I watching training footage or a
commercial for a pickup truck via the
music the world will never know same
demographic really
Chevy Tundra it gets what you need done
yes I know it's Toyota uh Tom and I have
actually been training together for the
past 15 years so the workout we're going
to do today is based on Tom's in-season
workout just to kind of keep up with his
foundational program I don't know how
much of that makes any sense he said
it's he's doing his in-season program to
keep up with his sort of Foundations
okay I don't know what if this off
season or in season though so
those would make a whole lot more sense
let's find out things that we've done in
the off season to make sure we can
maintain them during the course of the
season so we're going to run through
nine exercises today that are going to
cover the full body nine exercises full
body
interesting
of course there's a Forever warm-up
coming up here we go
any vet sent any bets on how long this
warm-up will be half a third a fifth if
you're really daring and bold so before
each of our exercises what we typically
do with Tom that's not Tom that's
Christian Boucher we will just do an
just an active warm-up it'll just be a
quick little banded run just so we can
stimulate the nervous system yes that's
what banded runs do they stimulate the
nervous system do you know what else
does that whatever exercise you're going
to do next but lighter and it also
stimulates nervous system and almost the
exact same way that prepares you best
for that exercise General warm-ups are
usually a waste of time
in the weight room so we're gonna do
here is we're going to get these heavy
bands that is not a heavy band that is
the lightest band in the gym and we're
gonna cross them over so it's going to
form an X over your chest and then we're
going to do a quick feet quick hands
and so we'll typically do this until he
just feels warm slightly exhausted
slightly exhausted is too much for a
warm-up feeling warm is fine this is a
fine way to get the whole body moving I
have no problem with it you can get
almost the same effect by not using the
band at all and just jumping up a little
higher but that wouldn't look cool and
your titties won't poke out like this
guys
big packs
so this exercise is standing rows and
what we're going to do is we're going to
take our okay let's just cut right to
the chase here Mr Tom Brady is an
All-Pro quarterback he is an elite male
specimen capable of truly man strength
if there is such a thing which
definitely exists in the National
Football League if you are strong like
men as we say in Russia then you cannot
possibly benefit from standing rows
because you are rowing at least your
body weight in standing rows your body
weight is vectored at potentially zero
actual perceived load if you're totally
vertical or if you lean back a little
bit like these folks will then it's
factored at I don't know 15 degree
cosign that you are rolling like 15
or 30 percent of your body weight that's
nothing that's nonsense it's a warm-up
it's not challenging it's not
overloading pro athlete pro athlete
folks
also Note One set to failure Tom Brady
is an explosive athlete failure training
has demonstrated time and time again to
do disproportionate amount of fatigue
deposition and actually slows the
athlete down pro football players are
the last people you want to train to
failure maybe after like sprinters and
high jumpers this is nonsense we're
gonna get uh into our correct position
here so again make sure that our spine
is straight you got to make sure your
spine is straight even though there are
no Force factors going through your
spine what are you going to do pull your
spine apart what is this knees are bent
gotta bend the knees otherwise who knows
what can happen with such insane forces
hi core High Core you gotta crunch up
the core everyone knows this because the
vertical forces for the heavy barbell
that goes through your spine need to be
stabilized so that you're able to
translate forces to your legs and back
up and also keep the spinal column safe
oh wait wait there is no barbell on his
back he's just rowing some tiny percent
of his body weight on a band on the wall
tight glutes
tight glutes I rest my case and we're
going to Simply bring these back we want
to make sure that our elbows are tight
to our body as we do these rows
otherwise who knows what will happen
and what this exercise is going to do
it's going to engage back muscles it's
going to engage posterior delt muscles
um that's all very true but watch this
I just engaged my forearm muscles
Isn't that cool am I getting bigger or
stronger in my forearms no because
there's no weight in here God damn it he
can probably do this exercise for like I
don't know hundreds of reps before he
gets to failure so when he said do a set
to failure this gentleman will not be
doing that because he can't fail look at
how fast each velocity of movement is
for each repetition that is some
insanely tiny fraction of run repetition
Max you could do this forever
huh notice he did not go to failure on
the video because that would have been
impossible he'd be doing it right now
still banded push-up one set to failure
I'll just cut right to the chase for a
pro athlete banded push-ups can be
effective you have to have a high degree
of band tension and the goal that the
athlete should have is to try to result
every single push-up he's leaving the
ground and coming back if against a band
you can create that much explosive force
you're really training something quite
sport specific the ability to push it's
really really hard super helpful in
American football stiff arm one arm two
arm do the swim whatever it is explosive
upper body is awesome so if I was doing
these banded I would be doing them for
sets of three to six Mega explosive
tough bands trying to come up off the
ground each time that's how you train
for power so this exercise is our
resistant band push-up and we do this so
that we can isolate PEC major and minor
the delts why would you isolate anything
on a professional athlete that moves in
a super coordinated way they do basic
movements pushing and pulling and
grabbing and throwing isolation work is
for bodybuilders people who train for
Aesthetics
are we still training football player
yet I can't tell and the core gotta hit
the core you know this already the most
important thing in life maybe and the
idea of having this movement is to be
able to do it at the speed of sport so
it needs to be a functional movement
which is a lot of the things that we do
here everything is based on functional
stability and functional strength you're
not training for function generally
you're training for a specific kind of
function hurting other people on the
football field performing and staying
safe training a pro football player
remember
this is functional for people who just
need to get into adult Fitness and learn
how to move their bodies around for the
first time ever and during the season
for Tom it's one set max reps oh so this
is during the season this is stupid he's
actually slowing him down one set to
failure luckily isn't much for Mr Tom
Brady has been lifting weights probably
his entire life or so but it is also
going to marginally slow him down while
getting him only some mild muscle
retention benefit except for those rows
those rows do nothing at all so this
exercise is called core rotations and to
begin this exercise you're going to
start with rotation towards the band
spine and keeping your arms straight
you're going to rotate about 180 degrees
to the opposite side because she's not
rotating much he's mostly rotating
through his shoulders and not actually
through the mid trunk which is where you
want to rotate from you're going to also
want to be able to Pivot your legs when
you rotate because that's how athletes
rotate when they're actually doing
athletic things
this is general fitness for housewives
that don't actually want to work out Tom
Brady trains like this unfortunately I
don't think your trainer is an expert in
training
you know what would I know I just have a
PhD in the you want to make sure
that as you do this you're looking to
only rotate your upper torso you don't
want to rotate your mid torso here of
course why would you want to rotate your
Mentor so just the most athletic thing
you can do
just want to make sure you just get a
good shoulder rotation engaging core and
making sure that we're staying nice and
stable this is the least athletic thing
I've ever seen in my entire life
practicing to like clean up a window or
some like that I still can't figure
out what this is for so for this
exercise Christian's going to
demonstrate our deadlift being banded
deadlift do you know how many bands of
band tension you would need in order to
make this challenging for Tom
Brady one set to failure my ass he is
not doing banded deadlifts to failure
nobody in that gym is training to
failure
alright folks if you want to see the
full uncensored version of this video
much more extra content some stuff we
did not put into this video our members
area is up for grabs give that a shot
and maybe we'll see you guys there
we want to make sure that your knees
never go over your toes what would ever
happen if your knees went over your toes
you could die
by the way quick myth rebuttal your
knees can totally go over your toes and
if you're used to the movement it's
actually healthy for your knees it makes
you better at Sports and that your nose
doesn't go over your toes okay the
halogen your nose have to do with
anything
the reason why this is so important is
because really for an aging quarterback
or any aging athlete aging athlete here
we go here's some science we want to
make sure that his legs stay really nice
and strong okay I agree it's nice to
have the legs stay as you say it nice
and strong very analytical how about
this as strong as possible since his
entire career depends on his legs weird
when you decide to get strong and you go
to a serious trainer not this gentleman
apparently you are taught to do heavy
barbell training the banded deadlift is
not one of these things because you're
going to do about 500 reps before you
tire out which doesn't translate to the
sport of football at all the play
doesn't last that long and actually
imposes fatigue on your legs than
interfering potentially with them being
as strong as they could be if you're an
advanced athlete folks this is General
mumbo jumbo Fitness training but for one
of the best athletes of all time this is
a sad time I'm sad so this next exercise
that we're going to be demonstrating is
the bicep curl does he not have weights
in his gym you're training Tom
Brady buy some weights what's this band
 grab the band with your hands
at about waist level and then we're
going to proceed into a bicep curl so
you'll notice that he's bouncing right
back down after the top and he's not
milking out the slow eccentric the
negative and that's actually a very
muscle worth promoting part of the
movement so even if the goal here seems
like it's to get bigger biceps which I
assume is the only possible reason they
could be doing this exercise it's a fine
reason not for an NC is an athlete but
whatever at this point even the stuff
they are doing that's the wrong stuff
they could be doing it more correctly
more properly more effectively more
thought through
dare I say more hypertrophically and
while you're doing this exercise you
want to make sure that the body doesn't
sway back and forth you want to make
sure you keep your core engaged if
somebody says keep your core engaged one
more time guys keep your core engaged is
kit from the 1990s it's nonsense when
you have a sufficient amount of weight
on your back or in your hands and you're
off balance it's very easy to teach you
how to keep your core engaged it's very
hard to teach you how to keep your core
engaged when you're doing nonsense band
movements that don't require your core
to be engaged you don't just turn on
your core for pretend you turn it on
when you need it if you have like four
by four four wheel drive you don't have
to have it on pulling out of your
driveway
but when your Jeep is almost off the
side of the road you will know it's time
to turn it on God damn it this is
pretend lifting abandoned tricep
extension one set to failure again all
of these lifts will be better done with
dumbbells or barbells because bands do
not allow the highest forces at the
stretch of the movement
they allow the highest forces the
contraction and point of the movement
and we want the highest forces of the
stretch because that's been shown time
and time again in the direct scientific
literature to cause more muscle growth
again it's very important to maintain
feet shoulder width apart that's not
true you can do this with your feet in a
variety of positions your abs are always
going to be engaged glutes are engaged
knees are slightly bent ideally you
would not bend your knees at all that's
extra energy drain you should actually
lock your knees out on this exercise if
you're lifting
to try to accomplish the most tricep
growth that you can have this exercise
is the deceleration lunge and as you get
into that lunge you want to make sure
that you control the deceleration of the
lunge so you've got to activate your
core to help control that movement no
wrong your core pulls you forward this
is a fine exercise to do if you're into
adult Fitness
they're untrained completely
you have no equipment or access to
equipment
these are all the opposite of Tom
Brady's Reality by the way let me tell
you guys about the RP hypertrophy app
with over 28 preset programs already in
the app you can choose to make your own
you can modify an existing program or
you could just run the programs exactly
as they were written by me personally
this app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
so again the banded shoulder press he's
moving around really quickly he's not
focusing on the Mind muscle connection
he's not controlling The Eccentric the
negative
and uh this is just going to result in a
higher degree of effort for a lower
degree of growth than you could
otherwise achieve by focusing on
properly moving
sadness grips all of us
expand squat we can do it two ways one
which is the way Tom does it is we will
put one band around your knees then
you're going to take these bands you put
one in one foot
cross over to the opposite shoulder
if you can put on a band like that using
your arms it's not strong enough to
challenge your legs how do I really know
that the lower you squat down the less
the bands actually do anything that's
the opposite of how it should be take
this band cross it up to the opposite
shoulder I do like the music are you
ready to do a bad workout yeah I guess
man yeah Tom Brady does it cue The Music
Man do those bads am I the Target
demographic yet and what we're going to
want to do here with this exercise again
is we're going to want to make sure that
your knees never go over your toes okay
knees never go over your toes as a pure
unadulterated myth if you are
promulgating this in the year 2023 I can
tell you there's a very low probability
that you really know what you're doing
this is starting to sound like an insult
video to Mr guy here who trains Mr Tom
Brady and uh I gotta be honest man I
didn't want this to sound mean but the
guy just has no clue what's going on
that your nose doesn't go over your toes
this exercise is meant to strengthen
quads hamstrings and glutes the Swatch
does not strengthen your hamstrings your
hamstrings work antagonistically to your
quads on the squat would be very
challenging to train them both at the
same time
a mere mention of biomechanics should
make that realization obvious
you are paid to coach a professional
football player the peak of his career I
wonder how much this guy gets an hour
it's got to be over a thousand dollars
an hour
is there Justice in this world
oh my God finally pliability so at the
beginning and end of all of our workout
sessions we always do pliability work
one it stimulates the nervous system and
it activates good blood flow
you can tell he's making up so
before we do any of our exercises we'll
take a few minutes and we'll use our uh
our vibrating pliability roller here
vibrating liability roller now you have
my attention doesn't how big is it does
it this era I'm just saying before every
exercise he does this that's really
insane that's a huge waste of time and
what's nice about the vibrating aspect
of these rollers is that what it's
actually doing is it's it's stimulating
nervous system so we're getting a great
nervous system response to the aspect of
the of the tension of the Rolling that's
make believe nonsense what does that
mean a nervous system response you guys
want to see my nervous system respond
touch detected touch detected detected
detected detected detected
so there you have it this is Tom Brady's
in-season workout that ended really
anti-climactically in season workouts
folks just to reiterate need to conserve
strength and power at a minimum local
muscular fatigue going very far away
from failure producing either High
velocities or high forces but never
proximated to failure because we want to
conserve muscle and strength maximize
strength and power and at the same time
do it with a very low systemic demand
because Tom Brady has to recover from
practices and in season play we need to
be really recovered because every game
matter this is a workout that is instead
targeting very general fitness for
people that have maybe never been to the
gym and just want to start working out
with bands at home for the first time
ever it cannot be a larger separation
between what would be optimal for Mr Tom
Brady and what was actually Illustrated
I have no idea which way is up anymore
Mr Tom Brady you seem like a nice man Mr
Tom Brady's coach you also seem like a
nice man best wishes to you fine
gentlemen see you guys next time thanks
it's the rating oh rating
one out of ten one out of ten four a
professional football player one out of
ten
the one is for like hey you're doing
some workouts that's good that's it
see you guys next time
[Music]