hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization can you
outwork a bad diet can you still lose
tons of fat and get in the shape of your
life while eating anything you want as
long as you exercise enough well it
turns out that's probably bullshit as
Arnold Schwarzenegger bless his heart
would absolutely no doubt say let's take
a look at why that's BS first
Herman ponzer there's a gee kind of like
an exercise Anthropologist to some
extent he studied a whole lot of
literature and actually went all around
the world studying various cultures and
their expenditure rates versus their
food intake rates and he found something
really really trippy that humans all
around the world have a pretty narrow
band of how much physical activity they
do and if you try to take humans and
make them do much more physical activity
than they used to for an extended period
of time the amount of energy they have
available for daily tasks shrink so much
that all they want to do is sit there
and nap and eat and be lazy so that as
you try to do more and more work let's
say you're burning a 3 000 calories on
average every day
and you want to get up to burning four
thousand maybe four thousand's possible
maybe it's even sustainable what about
five thousand five thousand sustainable
will be almost impossible fifty five
hundred will be something you can do for
like a few days in a row and then just
like sleep for 12 hours straight and
you're basically it's impossible to get
you to do much of anything that entire
time so because our physical activity
realistically it's really hard to push
into extreme amounts it's really
unlikely that if your diet is awful and
full of absolutely insanely high calorie
junk food that you can actually outwork
that bad of a diet because here's the
big fundamental reason this is BS
training a ton consistently is hard as
fuck and because of Hermann ponce's sort
of uh asymptote there that as you get
closer to super high levels of exercise
it gets harder and harder to sustain
that's a problem but what about eating a
lot of food that's easy as hell you guys
ever seen that show my 600 pound life
eating 9 000 calories a day if you just
do fast food is tough but it's not that
tough and for most of us we could
probably crank 4 000 calories a day no
problem fast food and junk food and all
that super tasty stuff it adds up so
fucking quick the probability that you
will out exercise it is vanishingly
small which is also another reason why
you almost never see it happen so
here's an example I put in 30 year old
male 180 centimeter 80 kilogram very
average figure for a fine gentleman sure
as hell not me and any of those things
male maybe the jury's still out so
how much running at seven miles per hour
which is like a decent pace does it take
to burn off the calories of the
following Foods one Apple seven minutes
of jogging pretty decent brisk jogging
that's okay that's okay you have two
extra apples you run for 14 minutes that
day no problem hey looks like you can
out train a bad diet it's not bullshit
after all but hold on motherfuckers
aren't getting fat eating apples out
here you feel me
one large cookie 15 minutes
okay at seven miles per hour
that's annoying how many of you ever
have one cookie at a time
exactly you'll have three of them shits
for sure
three cookies that's 45 minutes of
jogging bro every day are you fucking
kidding me on top of what you normally
do uh hold on this is getting weird one
slice of pizza
one slice
of normal Pizza this is like a reference
value slice you ever you guys ever see
the government food indices that's not a
very big piece of pizza minimal toppings
minimal toppings which again no one ever
orders you would have to be insane to do
that they made topics for a reason God
Bless America
20 minutes at seven miles per hour to
burn that slice off when the last time
you had one slice of pizza
I don't remember I've ever had one slice
of pizza bro it's at least three
three slices of pizza is one hour of
running on the treadmill
you guys have been to I'm sure School
parties office parties maybe childhood
birthday parties if you had childhood
friends I didn't and your parents let
you leave the house to interact with
others which I also couldn't
you've seen people eat pizza little kids
will have three or four slices adults
will have five or six slices at an
office party just chatting with friends
in the course of 20 minutes and they
just bought themselves oh my God six
slices by the way is considered a whole
pizza which is nonsense in my opinion
and a whole pizza again minimal toppings
just six slices of the smallest fucking
Pizza you can pretty much get is two
hours of running
so when people say remember here's the
myth the myth isn't or the the bullshit
part isn't this is a video is entitled
you can outwork a diet yeah you can
outwork a bunch of diets you can outwork
a bad diet a bad diet means Twinkies
ho-hos potato chips Pizza Burgers all
that shit adds up that's a whole fuck
load of running we can easily see a
situation in which the Surplus calories
that a person generates every day
necessitate that they need to run they
could do this in a bunch of different
kind of exercise although jogging is one
of the most efficient ways time wise to
burn a ton of calories and can easily
see a situation which a person needs two
to four hours of jogging per day to
sustain a terrible diet
also when you eat a terrible diet do you
exactly feel like running to the French
hell no you feel like sitting around
with any more shit
or at least just sitting around
two to four hours is an insane amount to
run Elite Ultra runners run that much
Asher as hell isn't me yeah sure as hell
isn't most people
now yes you can out eat a not so great
diet if a couple of things apply to you
your output is consistent you're already
involved in Enduro sport you're a
triathlete for example you Swim Bike Run
and even lift weights and you do that
almost every day of the week you do a
crapload of exercise it's something you
do you can have a diet that isn't the
worst diet in the world but it sure as
hella has a couple extra cookies and
pizza slices in there you guys ever hung
out with endurance Runners that's
exactly how they eat mostly healthy and
there's some bullshit here and there
they're like oh gee whiz you eat two
Snickers bars that's crazy and they're
like yeah I ran like 18 fucking miles
today so I'm still under by a thousand
calories and I'm tired of eating so I
need more Snickers bars like that it
makes sense but again when most people
say yeah I'm just gonna like work harder
I don't want to control my diet like so
when would you become an ultra Runner
like what's that like that's some shit
so tough that you'll never be able to
fucking do it so most people just can't
do this kind of thing here's another
group of people that can out out train a
bad diet again suspect because a lot of
these people they just don't have a very
high appetite
I know a lot of folks especially back in
school when I was an undergrad I first
time sort of living outside of the house
other than summer camp which my
therapist says it's not a good idea to
discuss at all
went to college and I made friends with
a bunch of people and some of them were
very small people and very skinny people
and I was fascinated I was just like how
fuck you stay that small and skinny and
I realized like they wake up in the
morning they're not hungry they go to
class for eight hours and then they get
kind of woozy so they buy like a protein
bar and they eat it and they're like oh
that's great and they have a monster and
that takes them to most the rest of the
day and they get quote unquote according
to them Ultra super hungry at 8pm they
go and have tons of sushi which is two
and a half rolls they get super full and
they go to sleep that's like a thousand
calories and I'm like how the fuck do
you maintain how do you not go nuts and
try to eat your own hand on that I don't
know
and you watch the meat and they're like
oh my God Sushi's so good they'll even
put it on social media hashtag I Love
Sushi I can eat of Infinity of these
rolls eight three get out of here all
right if you're that person is that
exactly challenging for you to eat or
out train your diet so you don't eat
that much food the people mostly that
are interested in this not controlling
their diet but doing more exercise they
have an overeating problem they're
almost never going to be able to out
exercise it because their problem is
really really big
another one
is some people just tend to eat really
healthy on average some people just like
to eat healthy I mostly do I have a few
friends that like when they're like on
vacation with my wife and I they'll be
like oh here we go here's time for fun
foods and they'll eat like a giant salad
I'm like this is it you could eat
anything you wanted and any salad you
chose a salad they're like oh yeah we'll
go crazy tonight they'll eat like some
fruits and some like frozen yogurt I'm
gonna put the fuck bro when I cheat I'm
I've eaten pizza into my shit I don't
need anything you even go through my
mouth some people just eat super healthy
then they'll you know you'll talk to
them and they'll be really lean and
muscular and they say hey do you watch
what you eat they're like no not really
I just eat whatever I want like oh my
God like but you train elastic I train
all the time and I see they're out
eating they're out training they're bad
diet it's like yeah but their diet's not
that bad
it's easy to assume that everyone's diet
would be just like yours if you were in
charge but a lot of people eat way
healthier than you so if you think oh
that's okay I'll train my diet you could
out train their diet but you wouldn't
want to eat their diet because you get
bored of shit on it you would quit you
know in a couple of days
lastly you're just lucky as hell your
metabolism is a shit some combination of
appetite regulation and body heat and
non-exercise activity thermogenesis so
you could just tend to move a lot uh
you're the kind of person that just like
they're output is really high intake's
not that high and when you just don't
track anything you're in great shape and
you say oh I just work out a lot it
works for me
for a lot of people it doesn't
and remember again your diet's probably
not that bad right for most of us who do
not fit into these very tiny categories
this idea of out training your shitty
diet is highly sub-optimal if you want
to lose maximum amount of fat and keep
it off your best served in doing this
establishing a decent but not
unsustainable level of physical activity
moderate maybe moderate to high lots of
good weight training some good cardio
good daily physical activity 10 000 to
14 000 steps something like that and you
hold that pattern and you take your dog
shit diet and you take the fucking junk
food mostly out or wholly out you reduce
some of the fats and a little bit of the
carbs and now your diet has generated a
big deficit for you moderate activity
diet used to be shit we don't want to
bump our activity to here we won't
sustain it so we stay here and we take
our diet down here on solid not insane
daily deficit over the course of
multiple weeks you're super lean that's
the best way to do it that's the best
way to accomplish results not saying hey
I don't even want to look at my diet I
don't give a fuck what my diet is I'm
just going to do exercise really hard in
most cases it's not going to work
because in most cases it's bullshit see
you guys next time