hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization today's topic is
interesting and somewhat unusual one it
is how to become fit for civil defense
that would look like uh what the hell is
civil defense
well so the world has been getting more
and more peaceful on average since
recorded history began on average there
are some spikes every now and again but
over time war and death from all sorts
of violence has been in Decline this is
very well documented by uh uh probably
the best documentation is by Stephen
Pinker so you can uh look that out the
book is called the better angels of our
nature which is a fun title so that's
good news but dictatorships gonna
dictatorship and that's kind of who
starts almost all wars and as of this
writing you know it's what is it's uh
we're recording this it's like October
sometime
uh you know world war three is not
entirely unlikely which is weird to say
out loud
Putin is literally starting Wars in
Europe Wars of um irrational aggression
China's talking all kinds of smacks to
Taiwan uh maybe even more smack than
usual and both Russian and Chinese
economies at the time of this video are
in pretty serious trouble and when you
have economic destabilization or
recession a lot of times that's when
dictators will start to Wag the Dog kind
of Wars to take the onus off of their
incompetence so
could be a situation in which not good
things happen you're probably fine
but what if you are a civilian and your
country goes into mobilization for war
right
let's even say something like Total War
World War II style or at least a
non-nuclear version of it
what would you need as far as Fitness
attributes to be the most prepared in
the fitness capacity for such an
eventuality should it occur
and
I've outlined sort of four priorities
for civil defense shape four ways in
which you could be asked to be
physically fit should a large-scale
nationally engulfing conflict wherever
you live uh should it break out
so first there's four ways I can see
this uh um going down one is you could
be ready uh preparing yourself to be
asked to serve in the military directly
that's not way number one you'll need to
be a certain level of physical fitness
for that
you could be preparing to operate as a
paramilitary partisan fighter could not
be formally in a military but doing
military-like uh roles and jobs as as of
the time of this video many people in
Ukraine are doing
you could also do jobs that are very
adjacent to supporting the military or
supporting the civilian infrastructure
uh when war is going on like doing rapid
medical care for people who have been
hurt in attack explosions uh Fire
Control Fire Rescue and caring for
people and Manning a shelter for example
that's all gets pretty physical so you
may want to be in some sort of shape for
that you may be asked to support the
military or economy in uh physical ways
even though you are not directly
involved in fighting nor are you
directly exposed to it for example you
could be asked to load and unload
military equipment you could also be
asked to work or be in a situation where
you have to work in a job that is
physical because all of the people who
used to work that job or enough of them
had to go do other things related to war
fighting so for example the ultimate uh
uh best best case a bad way to put it a
a typical case of that is like the Rosie
the Riveter situation where men were off
to fight World War II in large numbers
in the United States and women were
asked to step in and help manufacture
various equipment most of it related to
the war effort and look like
um okay working at a bomb Factory where
you have to unload heavy pallets is not
being a housewife in the 19 late 1930s
or early 40s has a very different thing
and there's a bit of a different
physical preparation involved and lastly
number four if the war doesn't touch you
in any capacity but it really heavily
stresses the economy of the nation you
find yourself in you at the very least
want to be as healthy as possible so
that you just don't need as much Medical
Care there's not a as high a probability
that you need Advanced intensive medical
care because the economy could be
funneling so much resource into the
military effort into caring for people
hurt by war that like you having heart
problems means you can't just drive to
Atlanta like usual downtown to get your
F you know crazy you know radioactive
labeled CT scanned on so they can put a
couple stints in your heart you know
turns out the best surgeons in the world
are now helping heal veterans or people
currently fighting the war and it turns
out you know funding and
stuff like that has changed and you
can't actually get access to that
equipment and you just have to sit at
home and do your thing now if the
Atlanta thing sounds completely out of
um the picture for you like what are you
talking about like America's never had
to lean in like that we did in World War
II it's unlikely we will have to in the
future but what if you're one of our
many excellent viewers from Poland or
from Romania or from Latvia Lithuania
Estonia like you're English speaking and
high regard you're living a modern
economy but man you're right in there
that real nasty part of the world right
now so this could happen to you and
what are you going to have to be in
shape for is this
the next question is what does that look
like what does being in shape for these
capacities look like
I can think of well think about three
things that we want to be in shape for
at least
this is a very general approach because
it's a YouTube video we'll have later
YouTube videos where we break down if
you guys are interested in this please
do comment below we're going to comment
um what kind of Fitness is required for
for the professional Soldier and how
militaries should be training their
soldiers in order to become the most
physically fit possible for combat this
is a very very general look at that and
here it is point number one
you want to be whatever your fitness
journey takes you to be more war
prepared you want that to end in you
being at least
of a very healthy mobile weight that
means a few things specifically
if you can't scale a stone wall that is
roughly chest High you can't get over it
under any circumstances under your own
power if you can't walk from multiple
miles without needing to take a break
and sit down if you can't sit or lay for
some amount of time on less than ideal
surfaces because you're just not that
shape and size anymore then you are not
yet qualified okay this is the kind of
minimum stuff that's going to be asked
of you if you're remotely in the arena
of fighting a war or dealing with Supply
chains and Logistics next to or even
living in an economy that's close to
more
number two you should be prepared to be
strong enough to carry a weapon and
raise it to aim right so if you can't do
this with like five pounds and if five
or ten pounds makes you do this because
you're too weak bad news because most
weapons way like that much oftentimes
more so that's a huge necessity and uh
lastly you need to be able to at the
very least be able to get up and down
really quick
half Sprint around 200 meters in length
at a time
climb scale a small wall some stairs or
some kind of like little Hill with like
a fourth of your body weight of gear on
you and uh of course gear includes
weapons in this case and be able to
repeat this effort sort of over and over
now half Sprint is like a really really
fast jog right
and this is how much of combat movement
in infantry occurs it's rare that you'll
get all out Sprints first of all it's
kind of impossible with a lot of gear on
you and also when you're sprinting in
combat you need to maintain a certain
level of combat awareness it's not a
hundred meter sprint you will be asked
to go as fast as possible many times but
a lot of the movements are made at the
sort of just sub your fastest stability
level this is one of the main mistakes
and I'll get into this later in the
military series the idea that people
would just train for endurance like
jogging for 10 miles that's actually
something you'll almost never do in
combat
but this idea that you're geared up you
have your weapon on you have to run 100
meters to take cover behind something
fires exchange you're cleared to run
again and you go to another Point boom
boom boom run upstairs run downstairs
that's how shit happens in the real
world and if you can get in shape for
these things then all other related
military and civilian needs if you're
paramilitary home front Etc if you can
get in this shape all the other stuff is
you're more than qualified for so I'm
going to describe how to get in shape
for this one thing essentially being in
shape to prepare to be a soldier and if
you're in that good of shape everything
else that you could be asked to do if
you don't end up being mobilized or
recruited or conscripted is not as big
of a deal and you'll be able to handle
it no problem all right so how do you
train for this kind of Fitness if you
want to say okay look shit circling the
drain I don't want to be caught off
guard if I'm asked to help my country in
some way uh then I want to be prepared
and also it increases my own
survivability radically if I'm in shape
and so
there's a couple ways to go about this
first you probably want to start with a
core of full body weight training okay
which means as few as two to three
sessions per week three to four would be
a little better for most but even two is
totally fine start
s of mostly five to ten reps on compound
movements like presses pull squats
lunges Etc and you want to seek to get a
strong with sets of five to ten as you
can especially in pull-ups squats
upright rows and bicep curls because
those are often the lifts which you will
have to the muscles of those lifts are
the ones you'll have to do to pick
things up to raise things to pull
yourself like there's not a whole lot of
pushing that occurs in the in the
typical modern warfighters you're
pushing a lot of stuff away but you are
doing a lot of grabbing a lot of holding
a lot of carrying a lot of pulling and
your legs are asked to do a lot right uh
definitely throwing in deadlifts and
various rows in there is also a real
real real swell idea but we'll get to
that in a roundabout way a little bit
later
it because we don't necessarily need you
maximally strong but we need you really
strong with really good body comp and
with excellent um sort of uh anaerobic
uh or mild aerobic endurance doing these
things with antagonistic supersets is a
great idea so you do you know a set of
push-ups or or a bench press for five to
ten close to failure you walk right over
10 second break and do as many pull-ups
as you can pretty close to failure and
use change change change change change
change then you go to something like
deadlifts and overhead press etc etc etc
so this is a really good way to train
it's not the only way to train that this
is the very core of what you for sure
have to be able to do and build in order
to be the best possible contributor to a
military effort
number two you want to start practicing
at some point uh eventually working up
to loaded half Sprints you're going to
start them unloaded you don't want to
just put a pack on yourself if you
haven't sprinted unloaded uh before you
don't want to just Sprint load it right
away it'll mess up your knees and ankles
and hips and lower back and all that
stuff so what you want to do is just
start doing unloaded half Sprints which
is like a really really fast jog
of about 50 meters in length each rest
until you mostly catch your breath then
go again start with low volume so the
first day you do this you might do like
two 50 meter Sprints you'd be a little
weirdly sore the day after then after
that you do two sprints again you're not
sore anymore the day after you do three
Sprints a little sore the day after you
do four and so on and so forth
the idea is to progress to being able to
do 100 meter sprints
as at the same time you add up to a
quarter of your body weight of external
load
the external load there's an option and
I encourage you to use variation so
it should be a combo of something like a
sandbag carry so basically you put a
sandbag carrier that weighs a quarter so
let's say you weigh 200 pounds right
you're going to take a 50 pound sandbag
do this and then half Sprint with the
shit for 100 meters put the bag down
Crouch down wait until your breath is
mostly back pick the bag back up and
Sprint back
and you want to also do this with pack
carries
um and vest carries so you can put a
heavy backpack on yourself or one of
those heavy vests that you can buy from
like Rogue where you insert the metal
plates into it it weighs a whole lot
more that will simulate the conditions
pretty well you do that if you really
want extra bonus points and I probably
would want these because if I was in a
situation realistically I'd want to be
over than under prepared for
fucking War
um you could probably use something like
an easy Bar for simulating a weapons
carry now if you do this in public or do
it outside of your garage some people
could look at you quite strangely
there's a guy running around with an
easy bar and a backpack on at the fuck
is going on he's holding it like a gun
but that actually will simulate a huge
degree of specificity what I want you
guys to be prepared for if you know
fucking unfortunately comes to this is
when someone's like here's a modern
assault rifle here's a heavy pack
bulletproof vest backpack comms gear Etc
and if I can go run that way I don't
want you to be like oh my fucking God I
thought I was in shape this is crazy but
if you use an easy bar which weighs more
than most weapon systems that are given
to an individual and if you have really
heavy packs and you're used to this kind
of sprinting the worst case scenario for
you is like okay I've I've definitely
done this before and I can do it I can
do it at least to some extent right
um eventually hopefully over the period
of several weeks to several months you
progress to 200 meter half sprints with
two to three pauses ideally in the
middle to lie down completely prone wait
five seconds get up as quickly as you
can and continue to run because that is
the nature of many types of combat
is you're not just asked to Sprint or
just jog for a long time and then you
get a break you're asked to Sprint
Sprint move behind something or fall
down real quick then get up real quick
and go if it takes you too long to get
up out of a safe position and pick up
speed again
you're getting shot right but if you can
move move real quick the probability of
you getting shot declines right
uh lastly if your joints need a break
because this is a lot for the joints
consider doing some of your work with
heavy gear some unloaded and also
consider getting on the elliptical if
your joints are really bothering you
with this and just doing like two minute
intense bursts with one minute easy
interval so two minutes you fucking just
do this on high resistance and then for
one minute you crank the resistance down
and you just go nice and coasty until
you feel like you're pretty good breath
is mostly back and then fucking hit it
again and go go go just like that
number three you probably want to engage
in some sort of climbing training
lots of vertical pulling plenty of
pull-ups and weight training so your
vertical pulling should be very very
strong
ideally you'd get to a rock wall or do
some kind of bouldering and scaling
pretty regularly maybe a few times a
week maybe just once a week
and you don't want anything too tall
maybe like first or second floor height
you don't have to do like you know what
I'm saying you don't have to refilm the
alpinist all by yourself and shit like
that but uh ideally he would be doing
some of these climbs eventually with a
quarter of your body weight and gear
right especially if it's something like
bouldering where it's a combination of
walking up some cracks and also grabbing
some stuff and pulling doing if you
don't have access to any of that do some
stairs stairs work with relatively heavy
loads if you are doing stairs and that's
your only way to do work then I would do
stairs with maybe half of my body weight
on me in gear and packs or something
like that and then that fuck man makes
stair climbing really really hard but it
makes you pretty good at moving your
body up and down obstacles and uh you
work up to this of course start easy and
gently work up as your body allows do
your best and eventually you should be
competent to be able to kind of if
there's places to grab and places to put
your feet scale up rather quickly to
like a first floor window and fall in
and take take out your easy bar and
pretend to pew pew the aliens you know
what I'm saying I think this war really
going to be with the aliens people think
it's Russia China that's what they want
you to think
the
lizard people isn't that right Scott
they're really behind everything if you
think about it Illuminati the Illuminati
lizards
I'm not sure how those two are related I
think the lizard people run the
Illuminati but I'm not so sure but
you'll find out soon the world three
breaks out motherfuckers will have
lizards everywhere in any case an
optional approach is uh in addition to
this so number three number four is to
do some odd lift
training some rock training and some
swim training right so odd lifting is
means regularly maybe twice a week do
some lifting that's fucking weird like
strongman implements especially if you
have some rocks on the ground pick up
the rock like take the rock up to this
height or run with it for 15 or 20
meters dump it run back get another
heavier Rock wiggle with it put it down
stuff like that because you know if
you're loading shells into a cannon
if you're doing any kind of like moving
equipment to and from a truck if you're
picking up and uh dragging your buddy
who is unfortunately hit in combat
you'll have to have that real world
strength where not everything has a
gripper and not everything is a vest
where you put plates into you're gonna
have to learn to move your body in
really uncomfortable ways get much lower
than the depth of a deadlift basically
learn to peel your fingers under
something and lift it up that's good
stuff because you're getting ready for
the real world this is nothing I would
ever have Fitness people do because in
Fitness it's all for fun and for health
and we are in the west or the Western
the the modern world there's no war you
know people are like I want to be
fucking War Ready so I fucking do odd
lifts I shut the fuck up motherfucker
ain't no war out there but nowadays
maybe there's a transient chance of a
big war maybe you could start preparing
for that
once a week or so you may consider to go
on a longer hike type situation
basically a heavy rock with a quarter to
a half of your body weight in total gear
and like a nice real fast
walk clip preferably up and down some
hills to get you ready for the
possibility that you will be asked to do
that in a real life setting and probably
this is bonus round but I would sure
want to be able to do this if I was
going into combat is be competent enough
to swim briskly for about 200 meters
straight ideally being able to do this
in close do not fucking do this without
the supervision of a lifeguard you will
drown your ass do this at a local pool
where you can easily just step down and
not have to die right but uh swimming
encloses preposterously difficult it's a
trillion times more difficult than
assuming naked which is the only way I
swim a couple swimming pools I'm no
longer legally allowed to attend because
that a little bit of misunderstanding
I'm always like but I'm European yes
this new this is how God made us and the
Americans you never understand right so
in any case maybe you could become
competent in swimming again you don't
need to swim miles and miles but a
couple hundred meters yeah it might be a
good idea in certain military situations
like that could come in really fucking
handy all right
here's the thing
if shit is getting close to going down
and if you're concerned that you'll be
in Wartime soon which may be at the time
that we release this video some of you
especially in the Eastern European
nations may very well be in this
situation
um
maybe you don't think war is super
likely but it's a little bit more likely
than you want for your tastes
you can use this approach described here
for as little as a few weeks like if you
have three weeks to prepare even two way
better than nothing but ideally a few
months so some of you folks could maybe
start to do some of the stuff now maybe
if you want and um just get as fit as
you can in all the listed ways
especially ways you have access to and
when it's your time to step up and well
fuck tyranny in the ass you can be
um pretty fucking sure that you're much
more ready than almost anyone who's not
a professional Soldier or has won the
CrossFit Games before so
this is my best assessment of the
situation of how you should prepare
yourself
should military service arise I will
make other videos in the future of for
example if you're getting ready to go to
boot camp you for sure signed up already
and it's either peacetime or wartime and
you have six months to a year how should
you prepare for that I'll have other
stuff about how to train for Special
Forces so on and so forth if there's
anything else you want me to cover drop
it in the comments below
and uh yeah let's like uh hope world war
three doesn't happen should be really
bad but if it does let's win that shit
and just make the whole world free so
you can't be a dictator anymore that'd
be nice so we can all just make YouTube
videos and exchange emojis anyway buy
stuff click on things like subscribe if
you want to see more stuff like this and
we'll see you next time