I'm trying to get my back thick and
juicy and if you think about it what
works the back when you are deadlifting
it's this type of action the traps
because of the weighted stretch and not
just the upper traps but you know the
lower and the middle traps to get that
chest raising action and then the spinal
Erectors it's fantastic for those
because you're using them just as much
as a normal deadlift so I don't really
agree with claim here that the Lots or
mid traps or lower traps or R boys are
being trained particularly well here in
the rack pole just like the deadlift the
Force Vector that you're training
against is going straight down Meanwhile
your ROM boids mid traps lower traps are
essentially responsible for bringing
your shoulder blades back that is to say
the function of the lower and mid traps
and the ROM boids is essentially
unresisted so yes you can absolutely
feel your lats and upper back by just
going like this but the rack pole still
doesn't really Target the lats or mid
traps or lower traps or ROM voids
effectively at all in my opinion I don't
care about my deadlift so that's not
really a goal