welcome to the house of hypertrophy what
happens if instead of training with the
same number of sets every week you
gradually increase your sets across
weeks does it enhance muscle hypertrophy
or is it just overdoing it and hurting
your gains a brand new study is the
first ever to compare performing the
same number of sets every week to
progressing set numbers across weeks
it's caused quite a controversy online
and you will see why shortly let us
critically analyze this paper and then
fit it into the overall scientific
research to derive potential
takeaways 31 trained men were recruited
all subjects trained the back squat leg
press and leg extension twice per week
for 12 weeks they trained with six to
eight reps in the first session per week
and 10 to 12 reps in the second session
per week all sets were performed to two
reps away from failure except the last
set on each exercise which was performed
to failure Progressive overload by
increasing load was done throughout the
study to ensure subjects kept reaching
these proximities to failure in the rep
ranges in the first week all subjects
performed 22 weekly sets for the quads
split between the exercises a fixed
group continued to perform 22 weekly
sets for the quads for the remainder of
the study a full set group added four
sets for the quads every two weeks
resulting in them performing 42 weekly
sets for the quads split across the
exercises in the final week a six set
group added six sets for the quads every
2 weeks resulting in them performing 52
weekly sets for the quads split across
the exercises in the final week all
subjects rested at least 2 minutes
between sets during the training
sessions caloric and macronutrient
intake was not significantly different
between the three groups and all of them
consumed more than 1.6 g of protein per
kilogram of body weight hypertrophy was
evaluated by measuring vastest lateralis
cross-sectional area and thickness
before and after the study and the four
and six8 groups tended to see greater
gains than the fix set group When
comparing the four and six set groups
the averages tend to favor the six set
group however the confidence interval
was wider for the six set group and
overlaps a fair bit with the fouret
group particularly with a
cross-sectional area measurement what on
Earth does this mean indirectly this
implies there was more variation in how
well the subjects in the six set group
grew compared to the other groups so we
can't say with complete certainty that
the six set group was superior to the
fouret group the researchers also
evaluated back squat one R max strength
and increases were also Superior in the
four and six set groups versus the fixed
group in this case When comparing the
four and six set groups the confidence
intervals present a more convincing
picture of the six set group seeing
greater gains in the future at the house
of hypertrophy we'll have more videos
surrounding strength gains as well as
similarities and differences between
training for strength and
size the results of this new study are
highly fascinating gradually increasing
sets to seriously High numbers led to
Greater gains and these were the average
sets used as you can imagine the use of
these seriously High volumes is the
center of its controversy but before
discussing this study more it is
important we know what the rest of the
scientific research surrounding set says
we actually detailed this in our last
video but for those who didn't watch it
and as a refresher for those who did
let's speed through the key points there
have been three studies also finding
that very high set numbers of up to 30
to 45 weekly sets per musle group
produced greater muscle hypertrophy
however an important consideration is
all three had subjects use short rest
intervals between sets in training
sessions why does this matter contrary
to traditional belief short rest might
make each set less effective for
building muscle such that you have to
perform more sets this study
demonstrates this finding when
performing three sets on the leg press
per session resting for 3 minutes
between sets produced greater CAD gains
than resting for 1 minute between sets
but when performing five sets per
session with 1 minute of rest between
sets quad Gaines were similar to the
three sets with 3 minutes of rest
therefore it's possible if these three
studies use longer rests not as many
sets may be needed to optimize gains
indeed in three studies that have used
longer rest between sets in training
sessions all of them found hyper fee was
optimized in the 12 to 18 weekly sets
per muscle group range with no clear
benefit to performing more than 18
weekly sets per muscle these are the
average results from the studies we have
research indicating individual
differences can exist some people may
grow more from lower or higher set
numbers and some may see similar gains
between both now that we understand some
of the key points from the scientific
literature let us more critically review
this new study and detail what its
potential takeaways could
[Music]
be as noted there's controversy
surrounding the seriously High volumes
used in this study some individuals are
simply discarding this data entirely
since they can't believe it and or it
does not fit with their bias all in all
though I feel it's crucial to view this
data as analytically as possible there's
no question that the four and six set
groups were performing super high
volumes even the fix set group was
performing more than most people
typically do but there are some things
we must not forget this protocol was
just done for the quads not other muscle
groups most sets were not performed to
failure recall they left two repetitions
in the tank and only went to failure on
the final set of each exercise when
defining failure the researchers detail
two options one option is what I would
consider true muscular failure and the
other option was more so voluntary
failure and not true muscular failure so
some subjects may not have always been
reaching true muscular failure on the
final set either moreover as some of you
are probably thinking it's even quite
possible subjects were inaccurate in
estimating two reps in the tank though
we have research showing trained
individuals can be fairly accurate in
predicting their proximity to failure
this isn't always the case in accuracy
tends to be worse with lower body
exercises having said this subjects did
train and progress in the 6 to 12 rep
range and it's a whole lot easier to
train closer to failure with this rep
range compared to higher reps finally
recool subjects also rested at least 2
minutes between sets which is a longer
rest interval this would make the
training easier to handle and presumably
allow them to push harder on each set
compared to using shorter rests none of
this is to say what the four and six set
groups did was remotely close to easy it
would have still been challenging for
them in fact the authors noted some
subjects reported excessive perceived
fatigue in the final weeks which is
where the four and six set groups were
going Beyond 40 weekly sets for the
quads so I don't believe we can safely
and literally recommend everyone to
exceed 40 weekly sets besides the
duration of your training sessions like
the present study would be very long too
nonetheless I think there are some more
General ways in which this study fits
into the rest of of the
research strictly speaking we don't
actually know if the greater gains for
the four and 68 groups were because they
performed more average sets or because
it was the act of them progressively
increasing the number of sets they
performed by weekly of course both could
have contributed simultaneously but if
the average sets were contributing this
is the first evidence that when using
longer rests performing more than 20
weekly sets for a muscle could be
beneficial for some trained individuals
this doesn't mean every single trained
person should start performing more than
20 weekly sets per muscle group remember
we still have three other studies
failing to find a benefit to more than
20 weekly sets with longer wrists for
now I would just use this study as
potential evidence that it may be
justifiable for some well-trained
individuals to experiment in the
territory of Performing more than 20
weekly sets for a muscle of course it
may be most feasible to do this with
just a few muscle groups perhaps ones
that you feel to be lagging if the act
of progressively increasing the number
of sets performed a by by weekly was
contributing to the greater gains then
this is the first evidence this could be
a beneficial strategy if we use some
more practical numbers perhaps gradually
progressing from 10 to 20 weekly sets
per muscle group across a training block
could be superior to just performing a
fixed number of 15 weekly sets per
Master group intriguingly this method
was detailed in the paper by Mike isrel
a few years back after working up to 20
weekly sets you could then deload and
then do it all over again or bump up the
number slightly in the next training
block but I believe more studies are
needed to validate this method and
provide deeper insights but I think it
can be fine for someone to experiment
with this methodology if they desire if
you're searching for further guidance
about training our highquality partner
the alpha progression app can help you
create track and evolve your hypertrophy
and strength training a custom workout
generator can tailor make an
evidence-based program to your needs in
less than 2 minutes let it know the
equipment you have how often and how
long you want to train for whether
whether you want to focus or neglect
certain muscles you can even periodize
set numbers which is the method
mentioned moments ago where set numbers
increase across a training block with
the touch of a few buttons you can edit
things more to your liking search as
changing set numbers if that's what
you'd like to do the app generates
graphs that can track your progress
thereby saving you time during workouts
it analyzes your past performance to
provide Progressive overload
recommendations to help you continue
making gains there's also a massive
exercise database with video and text
tutorials on each Movement try the app
free for 2 weeks with a link in the
comments and description and if you like
it and decide to go beyond the link
gives you 20% off a subscription the
reviews speak to the app's unmatched
[Music]
quality as detailed in our previous
video the data indicates provided longer
rest between sets are used the 12 to 18
weekly set range optimized gains with no
clear benefit to performing more sets
however this new study is a fascinating
addition to the literature finding that
compared to performing a fixed number of
22 weekly sets for the quads adding sets
bi-weekly to very high weekly set quad
numbers tended to produce greater muscle
growth these findings might indicate for
some well-trained individuals it could
be justifiable to experiment in the
territory of Performing more than 20
weekly sets for a muscle perhaps most
feasibly with a few select muscle groups
this new study might also suggest that
progressively increasing the number of
sets across a weeks could be a
beneficial strategy so it's something
that you could experiment with if you
like it's still worth recognizing that
individual differences likely exist we
have data suggesting some people may
grow more from lower or higher volumes
or even similarly between both so there
truly is no one siiz fits all approach
consider all the research as potential
training suggestions and starting points
and then you can adjust as you see fits
thank you for watching feel free to
check out the alpha progression app or
our recent deep dive into building the
LS