why do people consider sumo deadlift
cheating and do you
well they consider it cheating because
it is cheating
[Music]
i think we're well acquainted
chris
you really did a number didn't you
say sumo isn't cheating chris
simple
sumo isn't cheating
say it
say it chris
i consider sumo deadlift cheating
he'll talk
you'll talk
you'll see
they always do
[Music]
is the sumo deadlift cheating this is an
idea that's been gaining popularity in
the online fitness community over the
last few years so in this video i want
to take a look at the most common
arguments for why sumo is cheating and
then see if they hold up against the
scientific evidence first just to get
everyone on the same page a conventional
deadlift is when you lift a barbell off
the ground with your legs inside your
hands usually just closer than shoulder
width and a sumo deadlift is when you
lift the weight with your legs outside
your hands both lifts are then executed
through a combination of knee extension
where the quads straighten the legs out
and hip extension where the glutes and
hamstrings straighten the hips out
there'll also be high muscle activation
in the forearms as you grip the bar and
high activation in the spinal erectors
of the back which prevents excessive
rounding of the spine now when people
say sumo is cheating i don't think they
mean it's literally cheating maybe a few
people do but according to the
international powerlifting federation
rule book there is no stance with rule
and the sumo deadlift isn't cause for
disqualification so it's perfectly legal
in the sport and this is standard across
virtually all powerlifting federations
both tested and untested so that's not
really the issue instead what people
really mean by cheating is that the sumo
stance makes the lift easier compared to
the conventional stance it's a shortcut
to lift more weight perhaps more similar
to doing a half rep or a three-quarter
rep on the squat so to see if it is a
cheat code for lifting more weight let's
take a look at some data from the ipf
world powerlifting championships where
you have the best and most incentivized
lifters in the world trying to deadlift
as much weight as possible for both
themselves and their respective
countries this is the percentage of male
lifters in the 93 kilo or 205 pound
weight class who deadlifted using a
conventional stance and this is the
percentage of lifters who used a sumo
stance if sumo really was a cheat code
why would the majority of lifters choose
not to use it for comparison let's look
at another technique that people also
consider cheating arching on the bench
press this really seems to help lifters
move more weight so what's the
percentage of lifters who used some kind
of arch at that same competition
oh it's all of them
100 of lifters use some kind of arch on
the bench press because arching really
does seem to help pretty much everyone
lift more weight but with sumo it just
isn't the same some lifters are a bit
stronger with sumo others are a bit
stronger with conventional but that
isn't quite the full picture because if
we expand the data out we do see a
pretty clear trend looking over here at
the second lightest weight class we can
see that about 75 percent of lifters
pull sumo and if we look at the super
heavyweight class it flips only 25 pull
sumo and 75 pull conventional so there's
a pretty clear trend that as you get
heavier the worse sumo seems to work for
you now the female data isn't quite as
clear it's closer to 50 50 in the middle
but at the extremes you once again do
see the sumo is better for the lighter
lifters and conventional is better for
the heavier lifters now there's a bunch
of theories as to why this is the case
most people say it's likely either a
mobility issue or a skeleton thing where
the biggest lifters are also the tallest
lifters and maybe taller lifters have
less favorable limb ratios for suma the
bottom line is that if sumo was truly a
shortcut to lifting more weight every
high level lifter would use it but they
don't it simply depends on it simply
depends on the person and their
individual leverages
[Music]
did you say something
you say something about
range of motion
what'd you say chris i consider sumo
deadlift cheating heard you mumble
something
about
range of
motion what was that
i consider it cheating
have some carbohydrates chris
you're looking catabolic
really
catabolic it is cheating
[Music]
okay so what about range of motion
surely taking a wider stance will reduce
range of motion which should be worse
from a general muscle and strength
standpoint right well i decided to
measure this for myself when i pull with
a conventional stance the bar moves 19
inches off the ground and when i pull
with a sumo stance it moves 16 inches
off the ground so the barbell's range of
motion was three inches shorter with
sumo for me i was curious how this
changed with height so i paid a random
tall guy at my gym to let me measure the
difference for him as well for him the
bar moved 22 and a half inches with the
conventional stance and 21 inches with
sumo so for him the range of motion was
actually only 1.5 inches shorter with
zuma in all its moment about a 15
decrease in range of motion for me and
about a seven percent decrease for that
random tall dude it's actually less of a
difference than i was expecting still
there are a few things to point out here
first shorter range of motion doesn't
necessarily equal easier because lifters
can offset any small reduction in rom
with an increase in weight if it gives
them a strength boost for example my
sumo range of motion is 15 shorter but i
also lift about 15 percent more weight
whenever i pull sumo so my overall
exertion or rpe ends up being about the
same again not everyone will see a
strength boost by pulling sumo but if
you do you simply adjust the weight to
match relative intensity we also need to
consider which part of the range is
being cut short when we pull sumo for
comparison just think about a full depth
squat versus a half squat
the hardest part of the squat is clearly
the bottom half you almost never see
someone failing a squat in the top half
of the range so even if you load more
weight you're still skipping the most
difficult part of the lift when you do a
half squat by contrast when you do a
sumo deadlift you still have to hit the
hardest parts of the range most people
fail a deadlift either on the floor they
just can't get the weight moving or
they'll get it to the knees but then
fail to lock it out and whether you pull
sumo or not you still have to hit both
of those points in the lift and the
latest evidence suggests that hitting
the hardest part in the range of motion
is actually more important than just
increasing the range overall i'd also
point out that people who think range of
motion is a big deal with sumo often
don't apply that same logic to other
exercises the conventional equivalent on
the bench press would be a close
shoulder-width grip
every time you go outside shoulder width
you decrease the range of motion but no
one considers everything outside of a
close grip cheating on the bench press
same goes for lat pull downs every inch
you go wider than shoulder width the
range of motion decreases but everyone
knows that's not a big deal you might
activate the back muscles slightly
differently by going a bit wider but as
long as you're getting sufficiently
close to failure i can't imagine anyone
saying that a wider grip lat pulldown is
cheating but even with all that aside
there's another big issue with the range
of motion debate which is that there's a
difference between the barbell's
vertical range of motion and the range
of motion at individual joints for
example even though the barbell does
travel slightly less distance with sumo
the knees actually go through a larger
range of motion with conventional you
can see that the knees are not nearly as
bent in the starting position and they
don't go through a big range of motion
at all it's actually more similar to a
half squat but with sumo the knee angle
starts much deeper and then there's a
larger knee extension range of motion
throughout the lift this means that the
quads do have to work a bit harder with
sumo in order to overcome that extra
demand at the hips it sort of flips
where you can see that the conventional
lift does use more hip range of motion
when viewed from this 2d perspective
however the hips are quite a bit more
complex than the knees because the knee
is a simple hinge joint whereas the hip
is a ball and socket joint this means it
allows the leg to move in three
dimensions so when we analyze the
biomechanical demands at the hip we need
to consider its actions in 3d this is
exactly what this 3d kinematic study
from escamilla and colleagues did and
without getting too lost in the details
they essentially found that at no point
in the range of motion was there a
significant difference in hip extension
demands between sumo and conventional
they were pretty much exactly the same
at the hips this is probably why emg
research shows no difference in
hamstring or glute activation between
sumo and conventional they're both the
same so what is the difference between
them well there's two things as we
already said the quads do have to work a
bit harder with sumo and then the spinal
erectors that run up the back do have to
work a bit harder with conventional and
i think this could be why some people
perceive conventional as being harder
subjectively you are lifting with your
back more and there very well could be
something about stressing the back
slightly more that makes it feel harder
than stressing the quad slightly more
but to say it objectively is harder as a
matter of biomechanics relative
intensity or overall muscle activation
just isn't based on sound evidence the
actual physiological differences between
the two are much smaller than many
realize so to wrap it up which style of
deadlift should you use well if you're a
lighter lifter say under 180 pounds or
about 81 kilos as a male or under 140
pounds or about 65 kilos as a female
chances are you might be better at sumo
and if you're above that you might be
better at conventional but the only way
to know for sure is to try out both and
see which one you feel better at it can
take time to learn the technique so i'd
recommend giving it at least a month or
two before making an assessment and then
given just how similar the two lifts are
i'd recommend just going with the one
that you feel stronger with or the one
that you feel more comfortable with or
you can use both chris
or you can use uh gradually get stronger
on both over time
hello
what is up