okay welcome everyone to the season 1
finale of myth-busting day so far in
this series we picked apart 25 Fitness
ideas and determined whether they're
debunked or if there is in fact some
scientific legitimacy to them I'm so I'm
actually gonna break this up into two
parts um so in this video I'm gonna
blast through the first ten myths and
cover them and a sort of quick
need-to-know basis how but anyway
without further ado let's dig right in
okay so up first is the idea that high
protein diets are bad for your bones and
kidneys now the osteoporosis claim is in
fact based on a handful of old outdated
studies from the 70s and 80s using
outdated methodology and according to a
2007 teen systematic review from the
National Osteoporosis foundation drawing
on newer data with improved methodology
the body of evidence shows that the
effect of dietary protein on the
skeleton appears to be favorable to a
small extent and is not detrimental now
when it comes to kidney function in 2007
the World Health Organization concluded
that while there is clear evidence that
a high intake of protein by patients
already with renal disease contributes
to the deterioration of kidney function
now reducing protein and healthy
subjects appears to have no foundation
okay so up next is the so-called
post-workout anabolic window and there
are two main problems with this idea the
first is that assuming you've eaten a
normal pre-workout meal containing
protein the amino acids from that meal
will still be available for delivery to
the muscles in the post-workout period
implying that the pre-workout meal can
function as both a pre and an immediate
post exercise meal now the second
problem is that resistance training
stimulates a prolonged elevation in
muscle protein synthesis that lasts at
least 48 hours after training and that
the initial spike in sensitivity appears
to be about two and a half to three
hours so Schoenfeld and others have
suggested that there is in fact a
roughly four to six hour window around
training with both the pre and
post-workout meals included now with
that said there are some situations
where I think you should consume protein
as quickly as you can
after training such as when training
fasted or if you train twice in the same
day but in general I would say it is
much more important to focus on hitting
a total daily protein target rather
worrying about the specific timing
around training now sugar is a big one
actually had to do two videos to
adequately cover it and I'd say there
were probably two of my most hotly
contested videos this year so for now
I'll just simply say that sugar can
certainly make it much easier to
over-consume total calories a sugar
itself doesn't appear to play a
causative role in either obesity or
type-2 diabetes and this is clear
looking at the N Haynes data from 1980
to 2013 since 1999 sugar intake is
actually decreased yet rates of obesity
have continued to rise and I think that
instead of villainizing a single
nutrient like sugar or fat or what have
you we really need to look at the diet
and lifestyle as a whole being
especially cautious with very calorie
dense highly palatable and highly
processed foods in general as a rough
ballpark figure the World Health
Organization recommends that sugar
occupy no more than 10 percent of total
calories but this figure is based on
prevention of dental caries and I
personally prefer Allen Aragon's
recommendation of 50 grams of fructose
as an upper limit which if estimated is
roughly half a total sugar intake would
mean about a hundred grams of total
sugar per day that which should be fine
for otherwise healthy active individuals
this next one is pretty cut-and-dry how
the weight training stunts growth myth
gets its origin from some observational
data from the 1960s which found that
Japanese child laborers tended to be
very short in stature but of course
correlation doesn't imply causation and
since then pretty much every regulatory
body has come to the consensus position
stand that no scientific evidence
indicates that resistance training will
have adverse effects on growth during
childhood or adolescence so it's
actually really easy to bust this myth
if we just focus on the word absorb
because the body has a virtually
unlimited ability to absorb amino acids
from the gut into the blood i'mso say if
you ate 500 grams of protein in one meal
pretty much all of it would be absorbed
but I think the real question is how
much protein can you use in a single
meal for muscle building and it's funny
just one month after I published my
original myth-busting this this study
was published answering this exact
question so just quickly emphasizing
their main conclude
one should consume 0.4 to 0.5 five grams
of protein per kilogram of body weight
per meal spread across four meals per
day I'm so for a 80 kilogram or 175
pound individual you'd want to eat 32 to
44 grams of protein per meal spread
across four meals a day now with that
said some research on intermittent
fasting does suggest that you can still
maximize your muscle building potential
by simply eating all of your protein at
once and in the real world I would say
that intermittent fasting adherents who
eat say 80 or 100 grams or more of
protein in a single meal don't seem to
have any trouble building muscle but if
we just set that intermittent fasting
stuff aside my best guess would be that
the maximum amount probably lands
somewhere between 20 to 40 grams of
protein for most people but again I
think total daily protein intake should
take priority over distribution or a
specific time so the main take down
against fasted cardio is that just
because you burn more fat during a
cardio session itself doesn't imply that
you'll lose more fat overall like say
over a 24-hour period and pel√©an
colleagues showed that if you burn more
fat during a cardio session you'll burn
less fat over the next 24 hours and just
borrowing from the conclusions of a 2017
systematic review fasted compared to fed
exercise doesn't increase the amount of
weight loss and fat mass loss now but
still there doesn't seem to be any real
specific harm to doing fasted cardio
that doesn't seem to negatively impact
muscle mass for example so my suggestion
is to do cardio when it best fits your
schedule or when you feel like you have
the best energy to get the job done
while keeping in mind that it will be
net 24 hour energy balance that will
ultimately determine how much fat you
actually lose so carbs eaten before bed
are thought to make you fat because your
metabolism is thought to slow down as
you sleep but this simply isn't true our
research shows that while sleep
metabolic rate tends to be lower than
resting metabolic rate for obese
subjects that's actually higher than
resting metabolic rate in healthy non
obese subjects also dietary carbohydrate
is not readily converted to body fat to
begin
with this is a process known as de novo
epigenesis and it's actually pretty
uncommon in humans so I think it's much
smarter to eat according to a schedule
that works best according to your
preferences your schedule and your
appetite while being mindful of the fact
that snacking late at night due to sleep
deprivation or watching TV can lead to
overconsumption of calories which will
of course hinder your fat loss goals as
a whole the research on foam rolling is
actually extremely mixed some studies
show a reduction in muscle soreness
while others show no benefit especially
when combined with regular dynamic
stretching and similar conflicts hold
for range of motion
many studies do show improvements in
range of motion however again these
effects may be negated when foam rolling
is combined with a simple dynamic
stretching routine and on the whole it
seems that a good warm-up that includes
dynamic stretching appears to be enough
on its own for preventing injury and
improving recovery now but still since
there doesn't seem to be any real
detriment to foam rolling I personally
still do it for 2 to 3 minutes before
training especially on leg days and if
my muscles are feeling a bit tighter
than usual
so energy drinks definitely can cause
harm I think that the main potentially
harmful ingredients in them are sugar
and caffeine and sugar while probably
not the villain it's made out to be in
moderation can easily lead to
overconsumption of these nutrient devoid
empty calories especially in fluid form
so if you are gonna drink energy drinks
go with the diet option since you have
to drink 32 cans of diet drink just to
get your adequate daily intake of ASX
and 6 cans to get the ADI for sucralose
which is itself a very conservative
estimate based on consumption across a
lifetime caffeine can actually be very
beneficial at moderate doses when it
comes to energy focus performance etc
but can lead to cardiovascular problems
if over consumed Health Canada
recommends no more than 400 milligrams
of caffeine per day so just try to
moderate and monitor your own
consumption and exactly how safe energy
drinks are for you will depend on your
age activity level heart condition
whether or not you're pregnant and so
forth so there's no definitive answer
here and whether or not you are
personally comfortable with consuming
them
on your level of risk aversion as much
as anything personally I'm of the
opinion that moderate consumption is
fine for non-pregnant otherwise healthy
and active adults okay last myth here so
while it is true that metabolism does
slow down as you lose weight
there's no point at which fat loss
completely stalls or reverses despite
being on very low calories and this is
obvious in the real world where you see
that people who are in fact starving
look emaciated with extremely low body
fat percentages and they don't enter
starvation mode and suddenly stop losing
weight and I think a more science-based
explanation for why you may not be
losing weight despite dieting on low
calories probably comes down to one of
three main possibilities the first is
that you're actually eating more than
you think you are people are notoriously
bad at tracking and reporting food
intake with overweight people attending
to underreport the most now secondly
water retention could be masking your
true fat loss meaning if you're stressed
not sleeping well eating too much fiber
etc you could be holding water mass
while simultaneously losing fat mass
making it appear as though your fat loss
has stalled and thirdly the very
low-calorie diet could be suppressing
spontaneous physical activity so stuff
like fidgeting walking around etc and as
a result decreasing your total daily
energy expenditure subconsciously
alright so guys that's the first 10
fitness myths busted in hopefully 10
minutes like I said I skipped many of
the details here and of course you'll
want to keep in mind that like many of
these myths they're not completely
busted how many of these actually have
quite a bit of truth to them so just
because they're on the list doesn't mean
they're false in all circumstances and
these issues are rarely black and white
or true or false anyway two Mondays from
now I'll be doing the remaining 15 myths
covered in the series please subscribe
if you happen to be new hit the like
button if you found the video
informative and I'll see you guys all
here next Monday