set your feet about shoulder width apart
bend your knees slightly if you have
stronger adductors point your feet
further out if you have stronger vast
lateralis or quad sweep point them more
forward stick your butt out slightly to
engage rectus femoris more tuck your
thumbs into your hands and make a fist
raise your arms out to the side until
your elbows are slightly above your
shoulders
bend your elbows until your arm forms an
angle of just under 90 degrees
bend your wrist to accentuate your
forearm muscle externally rotate your
shoulders slightly to flare your lats
arch your lower back or puff your chest
out slightly take a big breath in then
take shallow frequent nasal breaths to
maintain your vacuum and abdominal
positioning
make sure your knees hips shoulders
elbows and wrists are leveled don't flex
so hard that you lose positioning can't
hold the pose or start shaking
finally look straight ahead and don't
forget to smile