hey folks Dr Mike here for anos
periodization I have a question for you
why does keto seem to work so well for
weight loss in fact it does and I can
think of a few reasons and I can think
of a few ways to make keto better for
yourself that if you're into it for
weight loss you can get even better
results with fewer downsides fewer
inconveniences so why does keto work so
well there are four good reasons one is
that if you switch to keto which means
cutting out almost or pretty much all
carbs your junk food options become very
reduced and the way that most people get
fatter and stay fatter is they eat a lot
of junk let's go through a quick list of
junk pizza ice cream cookies cakes
candies cheeseburgers pastas Chinese
food soda need I go on potato chips
which one of those food or food groups
or food types did not have a ton of
carbs in
it all of them have a ton of carbs in
there so if you say I'm keto and you're
a regular person most people who do keto
are just regular folks not super into
lifting or anything like that they look
around the food they're allowed to eat
and it turns out that none of it's very
junky and junk food isn't somehow toxic
or kills you in some weird way some of
it is some preservatives which aren't
ideal for your health but it's a really
small thing the real kicker with junk
food is that it's so delicious and so
packed with calories you're going to end
up eating a lot of it and that's going
to confer so many calories you're going
to gain weight you're going to eat more
calories than you actually burn but when
you switch to keto I mean what you
eating them calories with dog what you
cheating on chicken breast and olive oil
and nuts and fatty meats and like like
how much of that can you eat until
you're like n I'm full because junk food
is almost entirely off limits for keto
that is one of the number one reasons
why people who do keto often get a lot
of weight loss because they're able to
excise junk food essentially completely
from their diet or almost completely for
months on end and because it's cause
number one of weight gain and failure to
lose weight when it leaves you just lose
weight like crazy number two some people
not all get an appetite lowering effect
from reducing the carbohydrates and
switching to a mostly protein and fat
diet that's not dependably true for most
people but some people have a really
awesome response where after a few days
of eating very few carbs they're
actually just not that hungry combine
that lack of hunger with the fact that
keto doesn't exactly offer the tastiest
junk food choices and you're just eating
less food and eating less food is
absolutely the number one key ingredient
to almost every fat loss diet that's
ever successful so if you are one of
these people you can have great success
with keto and almost everyone that has
great success with keto and don't worry
they'll be in the comment section
telling us about how great keto is and
they're not wrong those are the people
who have the genetics that take their
appetite and reduce it when they switch
to keto some people it just makes them
extra fucking hungry they'll never see
them espousing keto cuz they failed
every time they tried it so so if that
is an effect for you my recommendation
is give it a week or two in the first
week you could be kind of recovering
from your carb withdrawal and you're
just want more carbs but after a week or
two you might get a very lowered
appetite sensation and that's really
awesome use that to keep your calories
low and constrained eat keto and you
lose a bunch of weight if after a few
weeks you're still ravenous uh maybe
it's not for you next keto can be really
straightforward that because it
constrains your choices you end up
having just Dependable choices
throughout the day that you can lean
into to and eat and that regularity that
consistency prescribes a similar amount
of calories over each day and if you're
at a deficit which you probably are on
keto cuz it's really hard to eat enough
calories when you take out carbs
entirely you end up being successful so
you might have a keto bar or two you eat
for breakfast you might have some eggs
and chicken you eat for lunch you might
have some lean steak and some veggies
and some mushrooms or something you eat
for dinner and that's kind of like what
you stick to you're not apt to go and
try to find all kinds of tasty crazy
foods with pasta this and macaroni that
because that's all off limits and
because keto can be really simple to
stick to and if you want a snack you
know you eat some nuts or something like
that because keto is so straightforward
and the food choices are so limited you
can make a Keto Plan for yourself that's
actually really just not complicated and
because it's not complicated you can
adhere to it better because you adhere
to it better you get the results for the
entire time that you're doing it lastly
Point number four there is a sense in
which keto works well to lose weight
which is really fat but keto also has
this magical effect of getting you right
into a diet because it lowers your body
water tremendously carbohydrates plus
the salt intake that is occurring
anytime you eat junk food those two
things together bring in tons of water
with them carbs and salt and when you
start doing keto you lose your
intramuscular carbohydrate stores they
get severely reduced severely
substantially it's not a bad thing and
your salt intake generally also falls
considerably what ends up happening is
you lose 5 10 sometimes 15 lbs in the
first week or two mostly off of body
water reducing that obviously is going
to come back when you start eating carbs
and salt and regular food again but that
initial huge loss of weight can act as a
mega inspiration and potentiator for you
mentally to keep going because if you
start a diet you lose like a pound in
the first week and then you gain half a
pound in a second you could be like man
fuck this I'm out but if you start a
diet and after 8 days you've lost 9 PB
you're like
bro what I'm in and then the next 8
weeks you might not lose 9 lbs every
week you'll probably lose more like one
or two but because you started off big
and then you kept going kept going kept
going kept going that initial
inspiration just leads you all the way
through then you get the mini gains on
the way and it's just more than enough
so it's a cool situation it's not a bad
thing you just have to understand that
it's not all fat at first don't expect
it to continue to lose 5 pounds every
week or something like like that now if
you want the optimum results for muscle
growth for muscle retention for your
best lean physique for energy for
athletic performance doing a more
balanced diet that has enough carbs to
do what you need to do with your body at
the highest level a diet like the RP
diet coach app can prescribe to you you
will get better results than with keto
but if you respond well to keto if you
get that appetite suppression effect if
you actually can do keto in a way that's
sustainable which means you have good
food choices around that you can make
around keto you can do keto and it works
absolutely great it's not ideal by a
small few percentage points but as long
as you're not trying to compete and
bodybuilding or something or be the best
athlete you can be or have the ripped
most chiseled physique keto is a great
option if it works for you but if it
doesn't work for you remember it's not
magical if you trying to cut the carbs
and it never works you get crazy hungry
you get crazy low energy there's no
appetite suppression ever and the food
Choice restrictions are really limiting
and you hate your life stop trying keto
at least for a bit try something like
the RP diet coach app try something just
regular eating good high quality healthy
food lower your calories increase your
activity and you're going to get amazing
results because keto isn't for everyone
but for the people it works it works
great what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now one last thing if
you're going to try keto there are two
stumbling blocks in keto one is the
people who don't do the diet properly or
who it's not for and they fail at the
very beginning first two weeks the next
stumbling block and the last one with
keto is when people exit out the other
end unless you're saying to yourself
you're never going to eat pizza and
pasta and rice and cookies ever again
which in that case like good job you
joined a cult and they don't let you
have any fun cuz only God is fun now and
God's just a nickname for the leader who
oddly has a lot of female companions
that are underage typical cult shit my
man no wait wait that's bad if you're
not an occult you probably plan on after
your keto diet returning back to a more
normal yet maybe lower carb yet maybe
more healthy but some normal Foods the
problem is is if you have a slice of
pizza after a keto diet the carbs taste
so good you end up having 10 slices you
get bloated you get a headache you gain
10 lbs you're pissed and you're like
what the fuck and you go back to keto
but then you're hungry again and you're
like oh there's a transition phase and
am I really just going to live the rest
of my life in keto it's a bad deal the
way to exit keto is strategic here's how
you would do it first when you do keto
make sure you have plenty of lean
proteins plenty of healthy fats and I
recommend always or almost always in
every meal a good serving of green
veggies they don't have a lot of
calories they have barely any
carbohydrate at all the fiber and the
micronutrients are awesome if you don't
have those in there you should but if
you don't layer them in first for a week
or two after the end of your keto diet
when you lost as much weight as you
think you can lose for that period it's
really getting annoying and tiring and
hard the next few weeks layer fruits in
just fresh fruit they have very few
carbs the carbs are almost always
insanely low glycemic so they don't
crazy spike your blood sugar you're not
going to get this insane like lack of
energy and lethargy that you get to have
when carbs re-enter to the system you're
going to be buzzing everything's going
to be feeling great if that feels good
for a week or two or three try to
reintroduce small amounts of grains some
whole grain pasta some brown rice some
quinoa some shit like that some beans
once you got veggies in there and you
got fruit in there in most meals of the
day and some grains man you're not keto
anymore you're eating plenty of
carbohydrate raise the amounts of those
as you see fit to fit your lifestyle
choices your preferences and make sure
your body weight is stable and all of a
sudden you're successfully out you're
off- ramped from keto and everything's
going just fine and now you're eating
carbs but they're healthy carbs that
right there should form the core of your
diet from there on out and then if you
want to eat some BS on the weekend some
pizza some chips great but now because
you're used to carbs it's not going to
cause you to gain a ton of pounds just a
few pounds and then after a few days of
the next week when you're eating clean
again it goes back to normal and
everything's great and then if you ever
want to try keto again to lose some more
weight well you take out the grains you
take out the fruits you leave in the
veggies you start keto a few weeks later
you feel amazing again keto low appetite
you do that for another 8 to 10 weeks
you get all your results and then you
ease back out with veggies fruits whole
grains and the normal foods and that
ease out period in total can be a week
and it can be four weeks long oh
continue to add in carbs as the carbs
you have in make you feel good and
energetic and calm and at peace your
digestion feels good don't just like add
in veggies one day next day add in
fruits next day add in whole grains the
day after I have a whole pizza that's
too fast ease in take your time and you
can ease into keto and ease out of keto
and then keto works really well and if
it works for you it's super recommended
it's super healthy it's super awesome
and I encourage your best results folks
thank you so much for tuning in see you
next
time
[Music]