here's the thing I'm not going to be
that harsh on these people why cuz they
lived 70 years ago who the knew better
now you have the internet y' got chat
gbt you have no excuse to look for bad
[Music]
Tech hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am a
professor of sport and exercise science
and have deemed myself the king of
YouTube Fitness Mac talking videos about
people who can't defend themselves cuz I
just make fun of
them ah I started that off poorly but
we'll keep it guys today I am reviewing
video footage from the 40s and 50s
telling us how to eat how to train how
to be permanent proper and how to do
things for Better Health we're going to
examine we're going to put our Sports
scientist glasses on oh my
glasses and we are going to shitz and
shck our way through this video are you
ready let's do
[Applause]
it he's Harold Korn this is already
good first of all my man's swimming deep
he can't physically beat off the number
of hoes he's with he would lose to them
in a fight that's how it numbered is
that is Peak male existence he's sucking
in which you can tell pretty easily he's
got quads man
and um the girls just can't get enough
they just can't get enough if you are
Massy proper 50s man this exact thing
guaranteed to happen to you so stay
tuned for more as to how you can get
yourself a a collection of nice nice
young girls and the local Bell simply
love to see what he does to the barbells
and now so what he did there was the
original clean you had to get the
barbell up to your shoulder rack
position without without touching any
other part of your body it was a clean
pull no interference later that changed
because people realized that if they
push their hips under the bar in What's
called the second pull they could lift
like hundreds of pounds more weight so
it became much more of an athletic event
less about gymnastics more about
athleticism and strength and it was much
better for the sport but you see there
he didn't touch shit that's clean as
hell and it looks like about 100 kilos
something I don't know if those are
dummy weights or not maybe they are but
the girls they love it and this is
exactly what will happen to you at the
gymnasium if you go even today in our
futuristic world of
2024 flying cars and show up to the gym
oh man say you'll get all the names yeah
legit last time I worked out I did clean
225 had at least three hoes dressed in
white in an Italian Villa staring at me
and you know what I told them I was like
lady ladies ladies this is a private
activity it's rude what you're doing
they turn around they know respect has
earned and now we don't think we can do
better than hand over Mr CRA horn and
his barbell to our Australian
commentator never been hand it off to a
commentator before no there was that one
time we went in the trailer so some hand
handing involved I got the part swings
it up again with the ease of a Treasurer
raising the oh split snatch Ah that's a
beautiful lift so the split snatch is
where you get the barbell up and then
you duck under it but instead of ducking
under it and a squat you duck under it
into a lunge and thus it's AKA lunge
split Squat and that's a split snatch
beautiful super athletic movement um I
used to do these for fun granted with a
lot less weight but uh really awesome
and uh excellent demonstration of just
the kind of 1940s and 50s physicalness
that you could expect from a real man
see and also notice he has chest hair
men today don't have chest hair why not
men what's wrong with you you know you
you know what I'm saying you're not
masculine enough H is that what it
[Music]
is what would the 40s and 50s peoples
think of our music today because if you
notice a lot of these clips they have
the same
like that music was kind of like
Universal for music if you wanted music
in your video that's what you was going
to get this that shit right there what
it do exactly emotionally jive with
anything maybe with like a tick tape
parade that makes sense but imagine
having you know uh a tour of a super
modern Factory and instead of like cool
techno music and robots and shit you
just
get I guess back then factories were
kind of like working at that little
little jig
Pace I like it we got a lot of game
spitting here he's for sure just running
technical game at this point that one
bitch standing up he's like hey you
looking at my crotch 4 she's like oh my
heavens and that one sitting down he's
like what's up she's like oh and that
one sitting down on the ground I don't
know just help her up like man there's a
chair here man you don't have to sit on
the ground Hold Up Girl watch
thisy and to think that we were like I
got so much
pussy I'm killing myself that when we
were young oh oh he's not killing
himself he's doing a very awkward front
double bicep um
guys aren't the 40s and 50s just crazy
but you know what else is super crazy
even crazier is that we have a member
section to our YouTube where you get an
uncut raw unfiltered unedited Mike
speaks his mind version of this exact
video in there get in there and get to
watching that video British publisher ex
Sergeant instructor re Park is re Park
the guy who motivated Arnold to begin
his own weight training journey
multi-time I believe Mr Universe one of
the ogs incredible and look at how he
looks in the that suit Mortals
everywhere compared to a god the man
with the best developed buddy in the
world re Park was the shit this is so
long ago and he's still way way way too
jacked for the era unreal 1951 there was
just not a lot of guys walking around
1951 looking like that I'll tell you
that since a small boy he's trained to
be Champion now in his magazine Universe
he advises all young damn dude that's
dop that is some inspirational shit and
uh he was of course s African Ive never
ever heard an accent that was more
mysterious and difficult to pin down
when I was uneducated in the matter than
the S African accent because it sounds
kind of like Australian but then
not I love it I can listen to South
African talk uh add inin item and I
can't get enough an 18 and 1 half inch
color gives an impression of regg's
tremendous arm muscles another champion
in the 1951 British tradition amazing
oh and I will say especially for the era
excellent posing rch Park was a true
professional what do you get when PhD
sport scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now's going on there all right we got
lady doing overhead tricep extensions
dope we got a lady seemingly trying to
put on her shoes or some shit work with
a band fine we got a lady massaging your
calves on a dildo calf massage thing we
got another lady laying down lengthwise
on the calf massager thing fine you got
a lady uh uh doing a stationary bike
maybe the only uh second actual activity
that beneficial and then we got one lady
up there on the on the on the monkey
bars just just kind of hanging out and
she just like hey let me be in the frame
and they're like all right get up there
damn dude that bitch can fucking
hit man you don't hit like me see scam
JK holy he's like man I was going to set
her straight but I don't really know
anymore see dude that's baller that
bitch just zapped her way into my heart
I'm I'm saying girl you can knock me out
anytime yeah it's hot for those who
haven't got the energy to go for 10 Mile
runs in the country before breakfast to
keep fit I remember this device back
from when I was in the 40s um yeah this
is
like the first bullshit fing you don't
actually need this to get in shape
device the St certainly not the first
one one of the early ones and there are
many still Scott maybe we can link the
video of us trying bullshit devices
we've had a video about these in the
more modern era from the 9s but yeah
this stuff has uh been in the works for
a long time although
um the uh as we call it technically the
H situation is stacked full so my man's
doing the shit it's going to work if
You' use this machine you're going to be
so breaded up and HED out you don't even
know what's going on anymore laspas as
the device is called are used all over
the continent in ballet schools for
immediate exercises and most important
for slimming of course you'll slim
by I don't know looking like you're
skiing on
acid
[Music]
Senor alova gained much of his knowledge
of factors like muscle tone spinal
suppleness breathing capacity and Body
Balance during his experience as adviser
on physical culture to the Spanish Army
I love it that's what used to pass as
expertise did he just touch that woman's
face oh yeah he sure shit did he just
just kind of did this like pinched her
chin now she's fine as shit but um oh
and then he went for her tummy this is
this me too shit that you know the me
too movement had a lot of excesses and
wet nuts but uh it had good thrust of
truth to it just put your hands on
people and this guy is man this is this
is why the shit happened just getting
his hands all over these bitches to the
University of
Madrid yes you got to look up why I
don't know a proper feminine posture I
guarantee you he was swimming in the
shit
too that that looks like it's fun to
touch sure getting an earful oh did I
say she was pretty I was waiting for
that I was waiting for
it yeah she can still get it her
shoulders and back but there is
virtually no limit to the variations
uh it's a lot of face she can still get
it next up is seemingly the health club
a Paddington London gymnasium we pay a
visit to the weaker sex
F they used to just say shit like that
for a chest exercise she has shown the
correct dumbbell press not terrible not
terrible Jee Elliot 20-year-old American
housewife who came to this country 2
years ago is one of the keenest of the
keep fit girls for the record Vital
Statistics are 3723
36 oh and she's standing they have a
little ledge for her that's a very
interestingly designed hack Squad I
wouldn't say
very poorly designed so actually she is
doing a squat uh hack squat what did I
say Smith machine it's it's kind of
somewhere between a c Squat and a real
squat cuz she absolutely can produce
force from her heels but notice her
heels are sort of halfway on so they
going to be a ton of force better than
just going on your toes but um they
probably reduce that heel get her feet
to come out a little wider get her chest
a bit more upright and she'd get a lot
more of what it is she thinks she's
getting out of that exercise I also
noticed that the standards for what was
muscular back then for women were
abysmal um I guess this is mainstream
they only did mainstream stuff back then
like you weren't on TV if it wasn't
mainstream so I guess who would who
would be mainstream now like the that
its signs girl what's her what's her
first name Scott Kayla it yeah yeah yeah
it would be like Kayla at signs
equivalent which she actually looks
identical to these people currently in
other words does not look like she lifts
weights and no offense she looks nice
like a human a human
being oh yeah that's my kind of face
they try to make everyone all all uh
feminine and then she's on there gotten
veins blown up out of her next squat
that's my girl that's what's up and look
at that jaw God damn it that's a real
human being finally once into their
stride the girls find all aches
disappear now you're getting the hang of
it I guess that was a statement to once
you're when you begin to lift weights I
think you get a lot of aches which is
delayed onset soreness they didn't
really understand it the time but he
also said once the girls get the hang of
it all the aches disappear and it's true
that when you have a program this
relatively monotonous you initially get
some delayed outside muscle soreness
then once you adapt you can continue to
train with minimum or no soreness the
problem with that is also it's probably
at least somewhat indicative of the fact
that you should be challenging yourself
more so most people will do this thing
where they do kind of a block of
training where they start out going
instantly to their maximum volume
relative effort and everything right
away and then they just continue at that
pace and they initially get super sore
and then not much later so the growth
curve of that how your muscles respond
to actual growth is probably under the
hood that they grow a lot at first and
then they kind of keep growing a little
bit towards the end there's a better way
to do this you do less at the beginning
and more at the end so instead of just
going right up and going across you ramp
up slowly and then go across what that
does is it never makes you psychotically
sore to begin with but because your body
needs almost nothing to to grow to start
when you get almost nothing in that
first day first week you grow a little
bit and you grow a little bit you grow a
little bit it's consistent awesome
growth all the way through with minimum
injury risk and probably better overall
long-term results so the idea that you
are going to get sore in the first few
weeks of training or first few days but
never after is true as far as it's
observed but that probably indicates
that people are not training ideally
more optimal training would probably
mean you get a little bit sore every
time you go to the gym and that happens
all the way up until your de lo week and
after de lo it happens again that
moderate level of soreness minimum to
moderate soreness all the time these are
always challenging the body it doesn't
have to be a thing but if you're going
to talk about soreness there is a bit of
a right and wrong way to do it now I've
heard it said that we women attach too
much importance to our appearance is
that true or not vote in the comments
below there's no substitute for the
daily bath as a ground workk for glamour
facts sleep comes next to cleanliness as
a beauty base and I mean sleep not just
going to bed if that means sitting up
writing letters or listening to music go
to sleep bitch trying to get pretty we
all want a lovely skin shining eyes a
beautiful smile and loads of Pep loads
of Pep Scott the video guy are you
attracted to pep in females yeah a
little get up and go I don't want some
bitch laying around sure hope this makes
the
cut and then there's this business of
eating the business of eating oh what do
we got there a little
Sammy a couple of literal hoos right and
an orange soda it turns out junk food's
been with us for a very very long time
and let's see what they thought about it
back in the day consists of soda pop and
a sandwich or a big buoy
sunde let's remember what we were taught
in home economics about a well balanced
diet the idea of a home economics class
in the 40s and 50s I just love love it I
don't know why I love love love it I'm
going to go back in time and sit through
every homat class in the 50s and take
diligent notes that's all I want in this
life let's see we got here some kind of
something on the left there gooey shit I
just assume it's space prison GRL some
sort of dessert up top milk it's
great tomato soup maybe and a sandwich
very well proper nutrition in the 1940s
meat cheese eggs fish milk protein check
butter bread fresh fruits especially
citrus fruits that's true that was also
a thing back in the day people didn't
get enough citrus fruit they didn't get
enough uh vitamin C and they actually
would have U Downstream health problems
from that so remember like um the mega
grocery store simply didn't exist back
then for almost no one and so you had to
be pretty intelligent about what you put
in your body because it was it was about
getting actual nutrients nowadays
nutrients are so easy to get almost no
one's nutrient to of the modern world
but back in the day like yeah you have
to make some some smart choices green
and starchy vegetables in proper
proportion and of course some sweets and
please go easy on fried foods great
advice why easy on fried foods because
they have a crapload of calories you're
going to want to eat more of them you're
going to overdo the calories you're
going to get fatter and less healthy
Scott the video guy what is that green
gelatin thing with white blobs in it at
the bottom of the
screen it appears to be some sort of
soup because there's a soup spoon there
yeah yikes food's just gotten better
that's why we're all fat today food is
amazing all
right that was fun I'm left with a lot
of nostalgia from from the good old days
see back when times was
simp but anyway other than as an excuse
to do my terrible by gender 20s guy and
girl voice uh this was a lot of fun and
uh yeah the weight training back in the
day generally sucked people didn't know
it was going on but it got better
probably maturing around the 1980s but
the nutrition advice for overall health
has been sound for
literally 100 years and you'll have
people like Dr Oz and other what are
they called Liars telling you otherwise
and they're bullshitting you fruits
veggies whole grains healthy fats
control those calories eat a couple
sweets every now and again be active
lift weights and you'll get glamorous
1940s body that you deserve see and I'll
see you next time for another edition of
exercise scientist
reacts see you guys next
time all right that was super
awesome see this video here you might
want to click on it if you want the fun
to continue see you next
[Music]
time
a