[Music]
hey guys I'm Lori Shaw laughs
Renaissance period ization
today we're doing a really quick and
easy fun recipe this is fro go this is
from my sweets only cookbook called
something sweet and it is four simple
ingredients that you add to a food
processor and you'll end up with an ice
cream like dessert that is gonna hit all
of your macros so we've got protein
we've got healthy carbs here and very
little fat and you can actually make it
not a fat very easily and we'll talk
through how to do that all right so
we're going to start with our Greek
yogurt you can use the full fat Greek
yogurt you could use the 2% and use the
non-fat use what's the best for you and
then we're gonna add the star ingredient
which is our frozen grapes sorry I just
put these in the freezer last night okay
see but they're frozen you don't have to
do anything special to them you don't
have to peel them you don't have to cut
them nothing so we're gonna add those in
and then I'm gonna add some sugar-free
peach syrup so you guys know I love
Taurani there's something about the
grapes and the peach and the cold and
everything that it to me it's just
perfect but again it would be really fun
for you to experiment with different
types of sugar-free syrups just to see
what you like so we're gonna go ahead
and process this first I've got some
nuts there I'm gonna add those at the
end because I don't want to over process
the nuts I kind of want to leave some
chunks so I'm gonna go ahead and process
this really well first
all right so let's check on it so you
can see how it looks it's starting to
like get solid you don't want to like
puree this you still want to keep it
thick all right so now it's time to
pulse in our pecans I'm just gonna break
them as I'm putting them in but it's
just enough to provide a little crunch
in there it is that nice like soft-serve
consistency and you want to eat it right
away all right there we go I'll use that
logo takes literally a few seconds
you've got basically frozen ice cream
like treat that is a complete
[Music]