hey guys Dr here for our fourth
presentation fourth presentation and an
introduction to bioenergetics real basic
overview probably taking about 10 to 15
minutes here and really give you guys a
very basic overview because we're going
to we'll be diving into this in class in
a really really big way just the basics
here let's take a
look so first thing I want you to
memorize exactly what this looks like
because it'll be directly on the quiz
you'll have to draw it just kidding
that's
so
fundamentally really
important carbohydrates are composed of
carbon hydrogen and oxygen all right the
general formula here is C H2 uh H2O
sorry and then an N the N multiplies
across everything so C6 h122 that's
glucose or 06 that's glucose and uh of
course alterations in atomic Arrangement
Mak molecules distinctly different a
carbohydrate is a very simple organic
molecule very related molecule is fat
very related molecule is protein and all
the other molecules in the human body
are start out from essentially some of
these basic atoms in addition to a
couple of
others so two very very important laws
of energy for you guys the law of
conservation of energy it's technically
known as the law of conservation of mass
energy states that energy is transferred
between forms but it can neither be
created nor destroyed so when the sun is
pooping out a ton of energy that energy
isn't destroyed it just goes to other
places and we can use our solar panels
and pick it up and the solar panel
doesn't steal any energy create any
energy takes that energy from the Sun
and it puts it possibly into a battery
now we have the energy in battery we can
put it in a little robot the robot will
walk around for us and now that's
mechanical energy the energy changes
forms there's no way to create or
destroy any new energy matter is
technically made of really bunched up
energy so when a nuclear bomb destroys a
bunch of matter to create tons of energy
no new energy is made that energy has
always been there in all of those
molecules and atoms and that actual mass
energy cannot be created or destroy
super super important concept another
important concept is the law of entropy
or the law of directionality it says
that on average things tend to go
processes tend to go from more order to
less order unless we put Lots energy
into them here's a good example if you
just let your car sit in the garage for
let's say a thousand years is it going
to look cooler and have more components
and a new exhaust pipe and be really
clean after a thousand years no it's
going to get dilapidated and fall apart
more disordered so how do you get a car
to actually be built what does General
Motors do in their Factory that's really
magic well their Factory takes a lot of
energy to run if you put a lot of energy
a lot of work into a car you can buy new
exhaust pipe new windows new tints
everything everything everything and it
becomes more comp complex more order so
unless we put a ton of energy into a
process that process tends to go to more
disorder that's a fundamental reason for
understanding bioenergetics and all the
processes of the human body anytime
something happens in the human body that
takes a bunch of molecules it makes them
into more order complex molecules almost
certainly that process took more energy
and that energy has to come from
somewhere for humans it comes from the
food we
eat all right
so there are two types of essential
processes in metabolism metabolism is
the sum of all chemical reactions in the
body and it can be slowed up into two
processes catabolism okay which is up
there is the process of breaking down
large molecules usually into smaller
ones and some energy so when you eat
food food is broken down and you get
small molecules and energy that's
catabolism on the other hand oop I guess
we skipped that one
anabolism anabolism is the process of
taking smaller molecules and energy and
using that energy to arrange those
smaller molecules into bigger molecules
when you grow muscle from the food you
eat muscle proteins are really big and
complicated that's anabolism so you're
saying oh I want to get anabolic that
means you want to take the small
molecules of amino acids that you have
eaten and they're in your blood and then
in your cells take those amino acids
arrange them into bigger proteins and
stick those proteins into your muscle
fibers and essentially allow you to get
bigger and stronger so taking small
molecules and using them to make bigger
ones with an energy of course is called
anabolism anabolism and catabolism are
the two sides of metabolism and
metabolism is all the processes that
happen in the human
body metabolism can be measured it turns
out and it's measuring the human body in
calories or kilo calories as they're
Otherwise Known anytime you eat 500
calories from McDonald's it's actually
500 kilo calories a kilo calorie is
technically the amount of heat all right
heat energy it takes to raise one
kilogram of water one degrees celsius if
that water starts out at about 50 Dees
cels it's a very scientific way to
measure how much energy expenditure the
metabolism is actually incurring all
right very very simple
concept there's anabolism and Metabolism
I guess I got ahead of myself and
metabolism is the sum of all of those
action
so energy sources really really
important point for most energy
production talking walking moving our
playing sports the body uses almost
exclusively carbohydrates and fats from
the food you eat and from what you have
stored in your body protein usually is
used to make structures but doesn't very
often actually provide energy for
anything you do there's one exception if
you're starving protein primarily from
your own muscles is going to start to be
used to to produce energy unless you're
starving protein usually composes only
5% of your energy needs carbs and fats
are our go-to molecules to actually give
you energy for physical
activity carbohydrates are usually very
simple to digest they're very simple to
process they're very simple to get
energy from and they're the number one
go-to source for energy especially for
high-intensity athletic activity running
marathons playing soccer games
weightlifting is almost all fueled
primarily by car
carbohydrate right and carbohydrate it
can be taken in from the blood once you
eat it but it's stored primarily in the
liver and Muses in a very complex large
molecule of glucoses strung together
called glycogen
glycogen is a branched molecule and it
kind of looks like that if you uh look
at the big picture so in your muscles
right now are a bunch of glycogen
molecules or Arrangements that it's a
way to store glucose or carbohydrate for
later activity so if you want to come up
and pick up a barbell and curl it a
bunch that carbohydrate is already there
in your muscles and glycogen it gets
taken off it gets sent into glycols as
or oxidative phosphorilation and it
provides that energy for those bicep
curls right there and
then fat on the other hand provides
substantial energy during sort of
prolonged low intensity activity if you
are let's say you're on a date and
you're walking around a new city with a
new friend and you walk for four hours
seeing all these cool sites walking is
really intensity and that is where fat
comes in handy you're using almost
exclusively body fat or fat that you've
eaten to fuel that sort of activity when
you're recovering from a high-intensity
activity let's say you played a soccer
game and then you go home and rest
afterwards recovery because it's also
very low intensity also uses a lot of
fat but if you're sprinting running
around doing really intense stuff fat is
very rarely used at that time that's
where carbohydrates come
in now the cool thing about that is that
carbohydrates provide a total in the
average person stored in the body
between your muscle glycogen or liver
glycogen with maybe about 2 and a half
th000 calories that's a lot of calories
that's a super super intense soccer game
that lasts a really long time something
to that extent a day's worth of activity
however take a look in the average
person fat provides almost 75,000 total
stored calories fat has nine calories
per gram each gram of body fat has nine
calories of total energy whereas
proteins and carbohydrates only have
four calories of total energy so the
body now we know why we have body fat
stores instead of just storing all our
free calories as muscle that'd be pretty
cool you need a bunch of Ben Jerry's Ice
Cream you get really huge unfortunately
it doesn't work like that you get fat
because fat is so efficient at storing
calories every single gram of fat has
nine calories that's why if you eat a
bunch of food and your body goes hey we
need to save this stuff up you add body
fat
protein mostly used to build structures
occasionally we'll use it for energy
mostly what happens is we go through a
process called
gluconeogenesis the creation of new
glucose you take a protein you take
protein's got everything the
carbohydrate does except it also has a
nitrogen group so we take that nitrogen
off it essentially comes off as ammonia
we package that into Ura and you pee out
the Ura and that's why pee smells funny
when we do that we essentially take a
protein and turn it into a carb and we
make new glucose out of that
carbohydrate and we use it for energy
it's not a process that happens very
often sometimes it does especially
during
starvation all
right so
enzymes enzymes are an incredibly
powerful tool in the human body we won't
look at this too much just give you a
quick chat about enzymes the real power
of enzymes is what they do is they lower
an active the activation energy for
chemical reactions normally glucose
actually does break down into pyruvate
which is a process called glycolysis
it's a process which we use in our
bodies we'll talk about in just a second
to generate a lot of energy if you take
glucose you take sugar and you put it
into a glass of water and you put that
glass of water on the counter after a
couple of thousand years that glucose
will actually turn into py rovate and
release energy heating that water up
just a t can we wait a couple thousand
years during a soccer game to run over
and score a goal of course not so we
have enzymes that take that glucose
molecule they don't add any energy to
the equation they just sit there and
because they provide a very awesome
environment the these enzymes
essentially clip onto glucose molecules
and allow the glucose molecules to break
down faster how much faster thousands of
times faster so that in instead of
waiting a thousand years to get energy
out of glucose we can get it in
milliseconds and this happens all the
time in the human body so enzymes speed
up the rate of reactions to the rate we
need in our body by lowering the
activation energy for those reactions
instead of needing to burn glucose and
have a ton of energy for it to actually
release its heat the enzymes lower the
activation energy so that just your
human body alone the temperature it's
working at allows those reactions to go
super super fast as fast as we need them
enzymes are facilitators of reactions
the big thing you need to know is they
allow the reactions we want to happen
much much
easier all right so basically how an
enzyme works it sits there a substrate
we'll call it a glucose molecule enters
the enzyme the enzyme envelops that
substrate and inside that space the
activation energy is really low and that
reaction occurs really well and really
really fast normally if we have that
glucose molecule floating around it Flo
around for a thousand years before it
ever broke into two but inside this
enzyme it breaks into two immediately
the enzyme unclips the two pyruvate
molecules go somewhere else and that's
that it happens really really quickly
now enzymes work well in a very finite
range of physical conditions three
things particularly determine how fast
an enzyme will allow the process to
occur number one is pH if you at an
optimal acidity enzymes work really fast
any more acidic or basic than that for
each enzyme they don't work anymore for
example the muscles the meas and atpa
that literally pulls your active inside
your muscle cells has an optimal pH
level just about the same as blood
somewhere in the Sev so if you produce
enough lactate if you're doing squat
after squat after squat after Squat and
your lactate levels start to go up that
turns a much more acidic environment and
all of a sudden my atps does not work in
the environment is too acidic so instead
of Contracting you're just and nothing
Happ happens and that's how you reach
muscular failure so you squat squat
squat all of a sudden you can't move
anymore you fall and the barbell falls
on you and you get rushed to the
hospital hopefully it doesn't happen
that bad but essentially enzymes need to
be in their own optimal pH good news is
there's different kinds of enzymes in
your actual stomach there are enzymes
that can work really really well at a
low PH why because the stomach is really
acidic makes sense temperature body
temperature is all optimal for almost
all human enzymes no surprise because
we're almost all a normal body
temperature
what's interesting is that some enzymes
really start to malfunction and break
down and not do their job as temperature
goes either really low or especially
really high and it turns out that
bacterial enzymes the enzymes that allow
bacteria to function and make more of
themselves have a lower tolerance for
heat than most human enzymes so when you
get sick what happens your body runs a
fever jacks up that body temperature and
the bacteria or enzymes stop working and
the bacteria goes oh crap and a bunch of
it dies off and hopefully your fever
doesn't get too crazy and your own
enzymes still work does that happen you
bet it does people die from fever or
they used to all the time and they still
do in third world countries nowadays if
you get a fever too high you get to the
hospital they bring it down for you but
temperature for all most enzymes is
optimal right around that middle range
whatever your normal body temperature is
and of course a really big Point number
three for how enzymes function how fast
do they actually make a product is the
concentration of of substrates in
relation to the products if you have an
enzyme that allows glucose to get broken
down for energy really fast if you have
just a tiny bit of glucose you're just
not going to get that much energy if you
have a ton of glucose you're going to
get really really rapid reactions the
concentration of the uh actual
substrates matters a whole
lot all
right all right bioenergetics I'm pretty
much going to stay on this slide and
just give you the real super Basics
about Energy System there are three
Energy Systems they are delineated or
used in the uh by the human body for
three distinct functions
how rapid of an energy release do you
want and how much endurance or for how
long do you need that energy the first
system is called the phosphagen system
it uses ATP that's available in the
muscles it also uses phosphocreatine all
right phosphocreatine works really
simple way it's a creatine molecule that
has a phosphate next to it keeps that
phosphate with it and whenever you have
run low on ATP it takes a phosphate it
donates it and it makes more
ATP ATP produces tons and tons of energy
and the phosphagen system because it has
either just available ATP or
phosphocreatine and just one other
system we're not going to talk about the
phosphagen system gives a ton of ATP
really rapidly so the phosphagen system
is used for things like jumping
sprinting for probably 100 meters or
less tackling someone lifting a really
heavy weight one time a ton of energy
really quick the problem is the
phosphagen system as soon as it runs out
of ATP it takes a wild replenish minutes
to get back up to the normal ATP levels
so the phosphagen system the best way
best analogy I have is if you need water
and you have a really big kitty pool in
your backyard and you take a knife and
you cut that kitty pool open and water
spills right the heck out you get a ton
of water really quick but what happens
if you want to use that kitty pool again
to get water je you have to seal the
crack and you have to pour water and it
takes a really long time so the
phosphagen system is produced a ton of
energy really quickly but it doesn't
have very good endurance
next system is better at kind of both of
those things the glycolytic system it
occurs in the cytoplasm just like the
fosen system does the glycolytic system
is relatively straightforward we start
off with a glucose molecule and through
a complex series of reactions we break
it down into two pyruvate molecules
sometimes they also turn into lactates
we'll talk about that in class so you
get glucose two pyruvate molecules
during that time a bunch of other stuff
is made but what's important to us for
just glycolysis is that process makes
ATP we get energy out of taking that
glucose and breaking it down into
pyruvate awesome glycolysis doesn't
produce as much energy per any unit time
as the phosphagen system glycolysis is
instead of let's say uh the kitty pool
analogy for the nsis we've got a fire
truck with a fire hose that's a ton of
water coming out that hose not exactly
as much as if you cut the pool open and
just let it spill everywhere but it's a
bunch of water and there's a whole fire
truck of it back there so you can put a
bunch of water on something for a pretty
long time glycolysis produces a decent
level of energy for all about 3 to 5
minutes at maximum capacity so events in
track and field for example which really
stress the glycolytic system an 800 met
Sprint oh you know last I check that
takes about two minutes or so to
complete and it's a full out effort and
the glycol glycolytic system is super
super important to that so anytime for a
maximal exertion you do something that's
3 to 5 minutes long that's mostly the
glycolytic system the phosphagen system
kicks out after about 10 seconds so
after from 0 to 10 seconds of running as
fast as you can mostly the phos system
after 10 seconds you're going to start
to slow down glycolysis takes hold after
3 to five minutes you can't do a half
Sprint anymore you're going to have to
slow down to a jog and for jogging our
last system takes K or takes hold and
starts producing most of energy it's
called oxidative
phosphorilation oxidative
phosphorilation occurs in the
mitochondria what oxidative
phosphorilation does is it breaks down
carbs proteins and fats all the way down
into carbon dioxide and water and in
addition to that ATP it's a process that
takes a while to get started it has a
really big gears a ton of machineries
use the whole mitochondria is used a
bunch of chemical Pathways oxidative
phosphorilation gears take a while to
get turning and because it's such a
complex system it doesn't produce energy
really fast but it can produce energy
for a very long time oxidated phos
oration of the human runs for its entire
lifespan for
example oxidative phosphorilation is
what you use for jogging how long can
you jog for if you're well trained hours
oxidative phosphorilation is used to
power walking how long can you walk for
you can walk for days oxidative
phosphorilation is used for powering all
of your other chemical reactions when
you sit and recover how long does it
take to sit and recover how long can you
do that for while I know people that
have been sitting around for years it
seems like so oxidative phosphorilation
provides a slow low and steady stream of
energy it can be used in sport mostly
for recovery and for lowlevel endurance
sport glycolysis is important for uh
High uh sort of moderate level activity
basketball soccer uh that kind of stuff
for weightlifting sprinting jumping
phosphagen system is important and for
endurance activity running marathons
ultramarathons the oxidative
phosphorilation system is most important
to keep up with our water analogy
oxidative phosphorilation is like
opening up your TAP uh in the faucet or
in the tub you open up the the tap water
and it flows for essentially as long as
you want it's not a lot at one time but
it more or less lasts forever so long as
you supply that water so as long as
you're eating food and recovering
oxidative phosphorilation can provide
you energy for a really long time which
includes urance activities as
well I think that about sums it up let's
see if I have anything to cover these
are all details we go over on class
there's
glycolysis Redux
stuff that's it see you guys for the
next
lecture