of that miror you twerk it on the dance
blow of that miror you twerk it on twer
it on of that miror you twerking it on
the dance flow that you twerk it Twerk
it on the flow twerking it on The Dan
flow twerking it on the danow twerking
it
on hey guys so this is going to be a
video of my second push day in
Progressive fitness's hypertrophy
routine I just started off with this
single rep back squat because it was my
first time squatting low bar with no
pain in quite a while and the depth
might not quite have been there but
since then I've squatted again a couple
times and I've taken care of that and
I've worked up as high as I think it was
4 45 lb so I'm pretty pleased with that
look at the
kid people were Ming his bench that day
so even though bench pressing isn't in
the routine I've still got a bit of
powerlifter left in me and now that my
back is doing significantly better you
really
motivated yeah pretty much so I've added
the big three movements back in and
basically I'll just do them at the
beginning of any given day so if it's a
push day I'll start with bench press and
then run through the routine and it's
pretty easy to you know just add a few
top heavy sets in there at the
beginning I take a big breath before I
lift jump off because it's like a dead
Li for me so that was 335 there pretty
smooth uh this is 3 uh
345 which is the heaviest I've gone in a
while and you can see I kind of missed
my groove there a little bit and allowed
the bar to sink in a bit more than I
wanted to but it's just been so long
since I've touched any weight even close
to that so that's why it probably looked
a little bit more Awkward than it
typically does Standalone incline press
just film it in the gym pretty much it
was actually really really crowded that
day and I didn't want to have to set up
the camera like behind some random guy
so I sneakily put it on it seated cat
phas machine it's black so it blns in
yeah uh these are 90 lb dumbbells I
think I did these for eight or 10
[Music]
reps and then I move on to the 100 lb
dumbbells on the last video I had a
question look I'm
yeah uh I had someone ask me how it is
that I overload on this routine and it's
basically just slowly like here for
example with the hundreds I think I
controlled the negative a little bit
better and I may have added one extra
rep and that would count as you know
sufficient overload for me uh with the
115s you what am I
doing
with the 115s I think I got another rep
this time as well um and look at the
dog oh the dog line on the floor black
thing by my feet oh that's the yeah the
guy um the guy who's spotting Jeff has
epilepsy so he has like a a medical dog
or whatever you call them like a safety
dog yeah to sense his seizures before
they come on oh it's pretty cool dog
just like chilling
oh here are my squats oh yeah I was
doing sets of five with 1 50 and I was
really pleased with them 150 was
actually my uh third attempt at my last
meet so to be able to do squats for that
volume four set to five um yeah I was
really happy with that and I think my
form was pretty good you can see that I
I think this is my fourth set so I'm
getting a little uh tired and my form
breaks down a little bit
but yeah pretty happy overall now these
are the decline cable flies that I
completely screwed up last time by using
a decline bench uh and so basically what
I'm trying to do here is keep my torso
upright and bring the cables just
slightly down from you know a high cable
position relatively High cable
position and I think I did 12 to 15 reps
here
um this is my last set of squats I think
I got really tired by the end of these
ones oh yeah and I should throw in that
I'm a 47 kg lifter so yeah my squats
aren't going to be super heavy but
they're heavy for that weight class
though yeah they're pretty good they're
they're not bad my deadlift is a lot
better
[Music]
though I'm starting to get some more
confidence under under the bar I was
getting like really nervous every time I
squatted so the meet that we watched one
of Jeff's clients and one of my his and
my good friends competed it was really
motivating for both of us so I owe it to
Hanan for my that
day CL cable flies
again and then I moved on to uh lateral
raises I did two different variations on
this day so it was still six of 12 to 15
in
total I read a juicy
delt I read a really good article on
tation on lateral raises if you just
Google lateral raises or maybe side
delts or something in tation you should
find it but they basically found that
doing leaning away lateral raises like
this was able to better Target the side
delt than lying lateral raises or say
lying on an incline bench away from the
direction in which you are abducting uh
and the reason for that is that when you
lean away you like Robin's doing here
you emphasize the top range of the
movement whereas when you're when you're
leaning say the other in the other
direction uh you more you more
effectively Target the supinatus because
you're emphasizing the beginning range
of the movement uh and the the side Belt
doesn't really take over until until
later so when the dumbbell is is at a
greater angle from your body
[Music]
basically I do I do this exercise or
face PS or a combination of them on my
pool day but Robin just squat that day
then did accessory stuff with me I had
to do some reults every once in a while
because I don't have a lot of pulling
movements in my program right now it's
transmutation so it's really focused
just on the big three lips yeah this is
another example of a very
awkward place to do an exercise just for
the sake of getting it on
film the gym was calming down at this
point though so there wasn't a lot of
people yeah in the
way Jeff has crazy shoulder Mobility I'm
jealous and this is an exercise that I
threw in there just to get a little bit
more side belt work
and
also it's not my favorite exercise but I
do throw it in there
every and so after this workout I did a
little
bit of posing strong in there what no
like oh I forgot to edit it
out
you're not sponsored by Adas by the way
had a really good sale at Christmas so I
bought this looks way better on this
camera than on theot Instagram
post all right guys well that's it thank
you for watching
please do like the video If you enjoyed
it don't forget to subscribe if you
haven't
already and feel free to check out our
podcasts on Instagram or on
iTunes we're going to be posting those
every
Sunday sck up kids they be out the tax
most times they be sticking you without
the gas I still