there is this idea that okay you're
obese you're unhealthy and you need to
become a skinny mini to be optimally
healthy bullshit if you lift weights
especially if you lift weights so you
don't have to lose a ton of weight but
you build a shitload of muscle where you
used to carry a lot of fat weight now
you carry a lot of muscle weight instead
you eat well very healthy you increase
your physical activity and you eat a bit
less junk and you go from being pretty
fing overweight to significantly less
overweight you go from having very
little muscle which is metabolically a
very healthy tissue to having a lot of
muscle you go from having lots of fat to
much less fat and you go from being
obese to being what I have termed
scientifically thickalicious which means
you're not skinny as F you may even be
overweight on average but you have so
much muscle and you're so physically
active and you eat so well that you are
healthy as
f