I was trying to be nice when we started
this video I can't stop the video guy I
can't do it this was supposed to be
comedic and I'm just pissed
[Music]
hey I'm Dr Mike Israel creator of the RP
hypertrophy app and a professor of sport
and exercise science at Lehman College
in the Bronx in New York city in the
United States on planet Earth and I am
going to be critiquing comedically
I hope the Captain Marvel workout got
Brie Larson into unreal shape for her
Movie Roll ask Captain Marvel let's do
it
she sure does a lot of stuff she better
she better be training pretty hard three
came to me and the good news was is we
had nine months nine months that's long
enough for another thing I'm just gonna
quit while I'm ahead behind I will say
nine months is a really long time you
can make serious changes in body
composition in nine months which is
really really awesome this guy's really
lucky to have had her for that long we
wanted to get that foundational strength
and movements established and that's
really the amazing
typically when women do hip thrusts
you don't touch their bodies needlessly
you do not Mount them needlessly as if
in a lewd position and they sure shit
don't need 18 plates on each side most
of those are tens by the way
uh this is a terrible exercise choice
for glute hypertrophy glutes typically
benefit like almost all muscles training
at a deep stretch something like a front
foot elevated lunge is 10 times the
exercise that this is and when you do an
exercise you do it with weights that are
light enough that the person can do them
themselves not but you have to go over
them and help them awkwardly I don't
know what this is this is weird help so
we need her to be super resilient super
strong so that she can overhead lunges
are cool
but it's a skill builder for overhead
lunging and unless you're trying to get
good at that which you're not let me
tell you what you're trying to do as a
superhero movie character you are trying
to get juicy glutes and quads and
hamstrings so people go damn
because that's what your job is you're
an actor you're not really a superhero I
know it sounds crazy and thus just
barbell lunges with a bar on your back
would be superior because you don't have
to do any shoulder stabilization you can
use more load that quickly gets to your
glutes and stimulates them instead of
having to balance a whole bunch and get
good at balancing for no reason at all
okay and here she is pushing a Jeep
impressive I will say but also pushing a
vehicle only contracts the muscles while
they're shortening it's called a
concentric muscle action and concentric
muscle actions by themselves seem to not
provide nearly as much muscle growth
which is probably the vast majority of
the reason you're training in Hollywood
because eccentric actions are much more
powerful for muscle growth pushing
something is concentric only this is a
poor use of fatigue Management in a
training program I just would never do
this and I knew in the movie by talking
to the stunt coordinator what was really
going to be presented to her so I wanted
to give her all of the tools possible to
get through this thing and and really
nail it and feel confident I will say it
is absolutely nice that he is trying to
get her to general movement competency
so she doesn't get hurt and shut down
production it's nice that he's getting
coordinated with the person who does the
choreography but I will say that just
doing um
more traditional hypertrophy exercises
like you'll find in our hypertrophy app
in any case those work really well and
they also provide probably even better
resiliency because they are asking you
to go through extreme ranges of motion
so it's a very nice notion and I really
like where he's coming from on this the
exercise selection so far not ideal not
ideal I use it before the workout and
after before because I can get
adjustments down my spine and then
afterwards it's more for Recovery all
right okay so foam rolling doesn't
adjust your spine it just makes you feel
nice but if that works to get you more
confident about your workout that's
pretty good the foam roller does not
help you recover in any way shape or
form
that is entirely illusory this was
supposed to be comedic and I'm just
pissed all right next up we're gonna do
the world's greatest stretch this is
great for the hips Mobility uh it gets
the upper back hamstrings Devin's gonna
step out and he's going to drop that
inside elbow would you why would you
name that the world's greatest stretch
fuck
stretch
it's greatest stretch
see someone else doing another stretch
you're like
you clearly have not been available to
the truth and they're like what do this
it's the world's best all right for the
next section in the activation the
muscles that are supporting the spine
especially for squatting or hip hinge or
any of these kind of things I want to
make sure that they're turned on before
we actually a little bit you guys know
what really fires up the spine to get
ready for squats squats with a light
weight there is no better warm-up than
the warm-up with lighter weight and
higher ups to the exercise you're
actually doing it checks every single
box and still others like it saves time
and is direct technique warm-up to
whatever it is you're doing I don't have
to change my technique
feel for this versus squatting or
whatever afterwards if I just warm up
with squatting generally that is the
best possible one with squatting this is
total fluff it's a total waste of time I
don't recommend you do it okay so
standard Hollywood trainer Circa 2023 uh
glute training begins with hip thrusts
hip thrusts are not a very good glute
exercise they miss the stretched
position of the glute and better
exercises exist like a sumo squat Sumo
deficit deadlift definitely any kind of
lunge especially front foot elevated
lunge on a Smith machine that would
crush it this is not ideal we're gonna
use it here to activate some of those
stabilizer muscles around the shoulder
why would you want us activate
stabilizer muscles around the shoulder
what is the point I have no idea it
sounds cool I don't even know how long
we are into this video we've not done
any exercising yet where's the should I
pay you for motherfucker Devon's a big
guy and if he's sweating from two pound
weights trust me this is gonna be plenty
for you guys
that hurt my soul to hear you can sweat
by turning up the heat in your car that
won't actually get you in shape and by
the way when you're a 270 pound person
you sweat no matter what you do
so I don't know what that's an argument
for is Devin being challenged no no he's
not luckily this is a warm-up you should
hope you're sweating in a warm-up that's
all fine
my head all right one more activation
exercise here and this is full think oh
my God
I thought he was going to brazenly and
irresponsibly introduce actual exercise
I would have honestly called the CDC if
I had seen him just ripping that poor
man right into a brutal workout with
only two
pointless activation exercises I always
try to be nice when we started this
video I can't Scott the video guy I
can't do it what we're trying to do is
prime the nervous system get the body
flowing I love priming the nervous
system but only second to getting the
body flowing
which if I was a professor of sport of
exercise science I probably know with
nonsense I don't even know what that
means flowing where if your body's
flowing you need to pick parts of it up
and reattach it to yourself because
that's really bad
folks go to school stay in school that's
all I'm gonna say what I want to do is
go ahead and show you some progressions
on this landmine we're gonna put 25
pounds on the bar which is nice and easy
but go ahead and find your movement and
figure out how this is supposed to feel
great advice on warming up I love it
start light and warm up later totally
great gotta cut this gentleman his do
squeeze push the hips all the way
through it's really good that they
elevated that thing on a platform who
the fuck knows what would happen if you
reached all the way down another three
inches
more muscle growth and strength and
ability you say nonsense spinal injury
and death grab the end of the the bar
that's going to keep it fine
so here's how this works more Sports
Science you may have not wanted to know
the grabbing of the end of a bar is
profoundly difficult because it is a
very thick handle and you have to two
finger grab it and you can't even get
good finger overlap somehow so you are
going to be limited in almost every case
unless you are geriatrically weak no
offense
by your grip and you will not produce a
robust stimulus for your glutes which by
the way your glutes are so much stronger
than your grip could ever be it's not
even funny this is not a glute exercise
this is a movement that looks like it
trains glutes to the untrained eye in
reality it's a forearm exercise would
you do that shit at home anyway right
what the hell is Pornhub for all right
the next one for our secondary exercise
is a horizontal push if you need to you
can step through step through push
yourself back up that was good
sounds good
um that's a good exercise to do if
you're not strong enough yet to do full
range of motion push-ups which is
totally cool if you're not we all come
from somewhere and uh now we've got an
exercise that's isometric push-up that
has holds in it let's find out if this
is worth a while so the next progression
we worked on with brie to get her into
to a point where she could actually do
push-ups okay so she came in not being
able to do push-ups so okay this is good
I'm curious calling me curious bring the
elbows back take your chest about two to
three inches off the ground and then
drop
start back over so you do essential
control until the most hypertrophic
muscle growth part of the movement at
the very bottom of the stretch and
that's when you reduce the tension
I don't get it Dynamic uh push-up
draping some chains over our hips these
I think these chains are about 20 pounds
okay so now we have video of her doing
it uh the chains are cool a fine way to
add load not the best way to add load
because it makes the push-up harder at
the top and easier at the bottom
the way muscle growth actually works is
you want it harder at the bottom and
easier at the top which a push-up is
already leveraged to have you do so the
chains are actually not a great choice a
better choice would be to have her wear
a little backpack or to just him finally
get an excuse to stand next to her and
be in physical contact take a plate put
it right under her shoulder blades hold
it there for her gently as she does a
full range of motion second thing what
the fuck is that stupid blue pad there
for except to limit the range of motion
so the stretch on the muscle isn't as
good so the hypertrophy results are not
as good social pecs are not as Jacks we
have less of an easy time believing that
she is in fact a super heroine I'm gonna
go ahead and show you guys a finisher
that we did with Bree finishers are
awesome I love it I can't wait dumbbell
total body complex six reps of each
movement never putting the weights down
this is going to be as tough as it is
pointless upright row we're gonna do
we're gonna do a snatch push press into
a bent over row back into a snatch we're
gonna move these as quickly as we can so
fraction critique here with a lot of
these videos this one for sure is that
there seems to be kind of a mystery as
about what it is we're in the gym to
accomplish if I have somebody from
Hollywood approaching me I want to know
what they want their physique to look
like for the role because that's why
we're training then every exercise and
every rep and every set and every
structure of the program will be
designed to actually train the target
muscle optimally
so that you look exactly like what
you're supposed to look like
this has a lot of elements of like
general fitness kind of Pop Fitness
aerobics class stuff just cool for
moving around with weights but if you're
being paid in an inordinate amount of
money to get someone shaped for an
unbelievably important role that will
also make them an inordinate amount of
money you just kind of you can do better
this is just really random stuff guy
this is the state of celebrity workouts
nowadays random fluff nonsense you guys
are being ripped off Bree worked out
five days a week with me pretty much the
whole nine months she worked her ass off
to get into shape for this movie I'm
really really proud of her she got pound
for pound as strong as any guy that I
know and that's saying something that's
really fantastic she got pound for pound
as strong as any guy you know well I
know a lot of girls that are pound for
pound way stronger than her and a ton of
guys as well sir you don't know enough
strong guys
and aren't you stronger pound for pound
than her
I quit my job
that was a training video with no
training in it it was just one warm-up
the whole time no hate the Train on the
video I'm sure is great we all have
plenty of me saying weird shit on the
internet I mean Jesus Christ you know
the push-up was sort of good it's just
so much goddamn fluff
oh God
two out of ten
[Music]