by and large superfoods are nutritional
 it's a term used by nutritional
gurus who want to Market their products
or supplements however if there is one
nutrient we could truly call a superfood
it would be
fiber welcome back Dr mea wolf Here
Local hard stool enjoyer here in the
wolf coaching HQ and today we're talking
about nutritional dietary fiber for this
video Let's skip most of the poop jokes
and get straight into the meat of the
video let's look into the science on
fiber and Health First a met analysis by
Reynolds and colleagues from 2019
looking at a huge data set here's what
they found intakes of fiber of about 30
G per day were associated with lower
risks of all C mortality so essentially
dying coronary heart disease and
especially of lower type 2 diabetes risk
and lower coloral cancer risk in fact
the association between higher fiber
intake and lower risk of type 2 diabetes
and choral cancer seem to hold up to
even intakes of fiber of 40 g a day or
more at this point you might be writing
up your comment about how I'm paid off
by big fiber and that I should stop
being so biased however others might be
interested in what foods actually have
fiber well the common culprits of fruits
vegetables and whole grains do appear we
can further distinguish fiber between
soluble and insoluble fiber but
specifically fruits and vegetables
appear to potentially have some of their
own benefits in their own rights these
both have unique health benefits and
impact the risk for different conditions
differently so if you want to get
maximum health benefits you should
likely get your fiber from a variety of
sources and get both soluble and
insoluble fiber in however to be honest
as long as your diet is reasonably
varied you probably don't need to worry
too much about checking the food label
and everything to check whether your
fiber is soluble or insoluble but here
are some common foods for both soluble
fiber and insoluble fiber for soluble
fiber fruits vegetables legumes and
beans are your best bet by and large for
insoluble fiber whole grains nuts and
seeds typically are your best bet so try
and get a combination of these food
groups in order to get both some soluble
fiber in your diet and some insoluble
fiber in your diet and indeed a recent
meta analysis and meta regression on the
effects of fruits and vegetable
consumption on overall health does
confirm this and in fact you see
positive associations between fruit and
vegetable consumption and overall risk
of dying essentially all the way up to
800 G per day which is around 10
servings of fruits and vegetables per
day importantly there does seem to be
somewhat of an inflection point around
400 G or five servings of fruits and
vegetables a day where you do see a sort
of diminishing return situation so if
you want to get most of the benefits
with less effort you could just get five
servings fruits and vegetables in per
day and still get a pre substantial
benefit or bang for your buck however if
you really want to Ace the class go all
the way up to 10 servings of fruits and
vegetables per day to optimize Health
before I give you some takeaways let me
give you a few caveats on the
relationship between fiber and Health
First in this study investigating the
relationship between fiber intake and
overall health keep in mind there's a
lot of overlap between consuming a lot
of fiber and also having a lot of fruits
and vegetables and fruits and vegetables
have a lot of antioxidants polyphenols
phytonutrients and other things that
seem to positively impact health and so
it's difficult to really disentangle
this they do perform covariant
adjustment analyses which try and get to
the bottom of this however it's not
perfect the good news as a practical
takeaway is that no matter what whether
it's the fiber the antioxidants the
polyphenols or anything else eating your
fruits and vegetables is still a really
good shot for optimizing your health
second caveat I am not a registered
dietitian so this is just a bro reading
some sides doctor bro but a bro never
less takeaways first of all all
these diet fads if they were revolve
around you eating only meat and
excluding fruits and vegetables and
whole greens they're likely going to be
coming at the detriment of your health
get back to making sure that you eat
your whole grains your fruits and your
vegetables try and aim for at least five
servings of fruits and vegetables a day
if you do this you're getting a l band
for your buck but if you really want to
optimize your health consider going all
the way up to 10 servings of fruits and
vegetables per day a really good
starting spot as far as overall fiber
intake goes is about 30 to 40 G per day
you could likely go higher than this and
see even more benefits but that's really
if you're trying to overachieve anyways
that's the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe and I'll
see you guys my fellow fiber lovers in
that next one
[Music]
peace h