but a lot of times men will give you
that ego shit where women are not as
egotistical straight up and certainly
not in the in that way as expressed in
the gym and then just oftentimes can
just be better coached
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's topic is male
versus female training differences
how does training work differently
specifically for size and strength
between males and females now
I've never met female in real life just
read a lot of books about them so this
is all theoretical
but we will see what we can do and I
think we have a total of
11 differences that I could come up with
certainly there are a few others I think
these are the main ones and the design
of this talk is sort of to give you some
perspective on okay in the real world
how do differences actually reflect
different programming requirements
different abilities and different
recommendations for females versus males
almost the ideal target audience for
this is like you Mr hubby who writes
your wife's training program and she
comes with you to the gym if you know
this video back to front after it's done
you could just do a lot better of a job
programming for your wife so she
inevitably starts to push even your
boundaries and all of a sudden you don't
know who's the man anymore and you're
like hey uh hey Karen can you wash the
dishes tonight she's like no Frank
you're gonna wash the dishes and you're
like yes ma'am and then sorry but
don't watch videos like this you won't
make your wife too jacked and too strong
to control anyway wives girlfriends all
jokes let's get to it so number one
difference these are not ranked in order
of importance or anything just a list
intensely handling which means that
females can usually do more reps with
any given percentage of the one rep max
so if you throw 80 of 1rm on the bar for
a hundred males versus 100 females
females in time to crank up a few more
maybe two to four reps with that eighty
percent of one RM than the males would
which is kind of interesting
means that if you go on percentage
programs for males and females you know
programs are like I'll do 82.5 for 3x3
for females this often leaves them
further away from failure than with the
males making the program more relatively
intense relatively effortful for males
and could throw some things off it's
just something to consider
and interestingly enough
females take less of a beating set to
set from high intensities so for example
you take the average 100 average males
100 average females that are in the gym
training regularly and if you get the
males in and do you know
six sets of four six sets of five in the
squat G by the end the males are going
to be doing very little weight they're
going to be really really beat up just
all over it's what a terrible terrible
uh amount of fatigue imposed but females
will be able to kind of just keep doing
sets of five and maybe drop to four by
the last one often with the same weight
they can just handle that fatigue way
better so that's definitely something to
keep in mind if you're designing
programs with the intent to push both
males and females as far as possible now
one thing that you could keep in mind
the rest of this video should have said
this first is if you have a female
training partner yourself male or vice
versa these are all things to keep in
mind so you can change the programs a
little bit if the margins still do a lot
of the same training but understand how
to adjust to make sure the training is
good for everyone you don't want someone
being over trained someone being under
trained you want to make little tiny
adjustments to make the best for both
next rest times females typically
recover much faster between sets so if
you're programming for someone and
you're doing something that's like oh
yeah three minutes rest like a lot of
women will rest 45 seconds be completely
recovered on all four factors the muscle
muscle itself can do more than five reps
productively the cardio is no longer
limiting they're not even out of breath
anymore
they feel strong they feel ready to go
sooner just are all good so technically
by our four Factor rest time checklist
they're already good to go 45 seconds in
and they spend another like couple
minutes just kind of like looking around
unless they should on Reddit like hey
you know like uh my program is really
boring I have to rest a lot guys can't
relate really I think you need the rest
just be patient and it's cool comment to
make to a woman on Reddit to help her
psychologically get through training but
another thing you could say is hey like
you know maybe as soon as you're ready
to go you can just go and thus you don't
have to be in the gym for forever so
that's really cool
um the big part of that whole thing is
the female on Reddit
that's never happened
Scott the video guy do females go on
Reddit
Scott is biologically a female as well
all right so
another thing is if you train with a
woman on the rest times thing and your
training partner
you might have a situation where she
every now and again goes two sets for
year one like my wife and I we train on
occasion together like we go on
vacations we'll just go kind of like set
for set and a lot of times she's like
are you ready I'm like
she's like I'll just do another set and
then rest and then you can go and I'm
like yes please for the love of God so
that's another handy thing to try out
next up per session volumes females can
do volumes within a single session a
single workout that would crush most men
right that doesn't mean per muscle group
typically anywhere between oh 10 to 12
10 to 15 sets per muscle group
procession is probably the best for
females as well you don't want to go
over that that's the high end for both
males and females but the total session
volume the total number of exercises and
muscle groups a female can train in the
gym and not leak into junk volume is
actually much higher than that of a
males and certainly in my experience and
literature can confirm this as well so
what ends up happening is
if you're writing a workout for a female
and you're like here's three exercises
you got to do this advanced muscle group
split come into the gym six times a week
and she does the three exercises each
with eight sets or whatever and she's
like Sue can just stay here and do more
and you're like away sister you need
rest like no false just does not need
rest on the other hand if you take a
female program and apply it to a male
about the 40th working set later you're
gonna be vomiting blood in the bathroom
you can't see anymore and your
girlfriend's like hey your set's up we
got 10 more fucking exercises to do you
know this is crazy so just remember that
females can handle more they can just
keep being productive in the gym for I
don't know typical males some somewhere
between 20 and 25 sets per session for a
pretty strong person it's like that's it
that's all you can do 20 to 25 working
so that's per session doesn't even
matter the muscle group much after that
point it's all downhill after that you
should probably do another session
whereas if you're female at 30 to 35 or
even more sets can totally be done by a
female in many cases and they're not
even overly fatigued at the end and
they're still having productive sets so
definitely something to uh keep in mind
there
number four difference is in weekly
frequencies typically females can
recover faster and more completely in
less time and thus are able to
productively have a higher training
frequency than males it's not a night or
day difference it's a little bit subtle
but nonetheless I would say A good rule
of thumb to use is to assume one more
frequency per muscle group for females
than males as a good place to start the
program and then Auto regulate from
there see how things respond so for
example if a good bench press program is
two times a week benching for a male a
female bench press program could
probably start at three times a week
venturing and the female would recover
very well and not spend a lot of
downtime like okay completely recovered
I'm totally ready to go it's Tuesday but
I don't bench again until Thursday or
Friday like just do it tomorrow and then
do it again Friday so it's one of these
things where if you're training females
got to make sure to intersperse their
sessions such that the frequencies maybe
one more time per muscle group than a
male counterpart would have and then it
tends to make the program work a little
bit better for females
number five difference is in
accumulation lengths
uh I would say there's about a week
difference on average that I've seen
sometimes even two so if after four
weeks of progressively harder training
the average male needs a deload call it
four to eight
after
five to ten
weeks the average female needs a DeLoach
so if you have a female training partner
it's week five and week six is deload
you could be like damn girl can't wait
for that deload she's like
I could just keep training you're like
hell women can just fucking keep going
and gee whiz there there's a sex joke in
there somewhere I've never really had
the sex in real life Scott video guy is
having sex for longer good
no it's a very
it is a race is that where you have all
those trophies in your room
mine my man it's about getting there
quick in any case so if you're
programming for females uh or as I like
to call them sisters and Steel versus
brothers and iron of course standard
nomenclature just know that you can tack
on an extra week or two to your assumed
periodization Paradigm for them for the
mesocycle and they're probably going to
be good to go and it's not just probably
good to go it's better than that because
yeah they could deload pretty often with
their male counterparts but then they're
like um not so much wasting a week but
they could have crammed in more
productive training before taking a
break right it's like if you're like a
really productive employee at your job
and you're just like working crazy on
this project it's Friday morning and
you're like oh my God I'm going to
finish this by the weekend it's going to
be great and your boss comes in he's
like all right all right Chuck let's go
to lunch I'm taking everyone to early
lunch and then you guys get the day off
and you're like I was gonna finish the
work I was like yeah we'll get it next
Monday it's all right yeah you got
people that are really talented
productive you're just leaving fuck
alone in office they make great things
that's how Mr Nick Shaw uh CEO of RP
keeps me in an office and and says one
day I'll see the sun he promises me that
the sun is very bright it's like a star
but bigger he says I don't know I just
go to work in any case same idea with
females be weird to have them deload
every fourth week like a standard all
polishing program for example if they're
like totally good to go for four or five
or six weeks before needing a dealer so
make sure to keep that in mind
next is axial and systemic fatigue costs
are lower for females right
on average do a variety of different
factors by the way it won't really be
getting into factors here uh much it's
another discussion but this is the in
practice differences that you'll see in
real life so
things like squats overhead presses
deadlifts bent rows females can do lots
of those more than males more sets per
week than males and not have to pay this
insanely burdensome axial and systemic
fatigue costs of just being beat to shit
there's only so many squats and benches
and Deads and cleans you can do in a
program as a male until your body just
collapses on you you can't get out of
bed for females they can do a lot of
Hardcore shit instead be like ah this is
totally fine I'm I'm doing great and the
great thing about these exercises is
females as we get to in a bit are a
little bit more resistant to hypertrophy
they don't they don't gain as much
muscle as males do but luckily they can
use much more
raw stimulus magnitude High movements
like barbell rows like pull-ups like
squats like overhead presses Etc and
typically males would have to
incorporate more isolation moves after
some compounds more machine and seated
moves less raw stimulus magnitudes have
to do a few more sets and focus on my
muscle connection a bit kind of I don't
want to say cheat their way to gains but
kind of navigate around this insane
fatigue caused by this very effective
but verification exercises for females
they're just as effective relatively
speaking but less fatiguing so you'll
see a lot of programs that you could
design and are designed well for females
which you would read it you're like
that's no way anybody can actually do
this it says 10 sets of squats followed
by four sets of stiff legged deadlifts
followed by four sets of overhead press
I would just be dead at this point like
you see a woman do it you're like I
guess I guess there she goes and after
every 45 seconds rest she's like I feel
great let's do it again all right all
right very good 45 seconds of rest and
you feel great to do it again sounds
like Scott the video guy Talent folks
look it up in the dictionary if you can
read good God all right so if you're
programming for females and a female has
a weak point of like hamstrings or
glutes or shoulders or whatever feel
free to scoot in a bit more of those raw
stimulus insane compound heavy barbell
movements because you might need them to
help her grow but also because uh she
can she can handle it and with males
don't try that shit uh you know you're
gonna kill somebody all right next up is
relative effort so so far all these have
kind of been like who are female
advantages so to speak like you just
they can just do more they're just kind
of better
disadvantage coming up number seven here
relative effort
females on average do not push
themselves psychologically as hard on
any given set as males do
I just won't go as close to their actual
technical failure point and misconstrue
their failure points as much earlier
than it actually is
not a ton earlier but notably enough
different for males where it's it's uh
relatively obvious if you've been in the
gym a few times
and this can be remediated in many women
not all to a large extent sometimes a
total extent where they're caught right
up to the males and even go beyond but
sometimes at least a bit of the way
through this can be remediated through
coaching and through self-work the
coaching part is they have another
female coach Let's Pretend with them
that's been around the block that's
trained fucking hard and it can be like
hey Stacy how many reps in reserve was
that last set Stacy's like two be like
bullshit how many reps you do 12 yeah
start another set CeCe gets a 12 looks
over and the female coach is like two
more and she's like do more shut up she
does it she's like oh my God I could do
it this is just two more after that oh
my God it was 4ir the whole time well
now you learn now next time when you
doubt yourself that it's almost close to
failure do a couple more episodes if
you're female listening to those
unlikely we do have one and a half
females as our audience then push
yourself a little further maybe unless
you got it all dialed in up here and
then you don't need that shit speaking
of dialing it in I said self work uh
inner self-work that's you know you can
be coached to do a lot of things someone
else present there can push you and you
can sort of let them be kind of like a
you're a vessel for their information
and and executive decision you're making
but after they're gone and you're
training by yourself you're like yeah
when no one pushes me I just do back to
what I normally do
so
you can meditate on this a little bit
especially in the gym as a female and
tell yourself you know I know that
I'm capable of more
and I know that maybe genetically
because I'm female I'm not advantaged to
just fall into being a psycho and doing
more so I'm going to try to push myself
a little bit out of my comfort zone each
time try to see you know how how
rarefied the air is up there in Failure
World failure world it's like an
amusement park which your entire life is
videoed in front of you and to realize
how much of a fucking failure you are
fuck you Dad
in any case
if you do some thinking about this as a
female you can realize I may be able to
push harder and you can discover you can
and it's super fucking empowering so
that's just on there to consider
um it does need to be admitted to be
addressed so if you happen to be a
modern day feminist sweet and you're
recalcitrant and any accusation of
gender-based differences and you're like
no way women work just as hard I do have
a Gambit for you
um do are typically males or females
more compassionate are typically males
or females better with children
especially young children uh who makes a
better kindergarten teacher on average a
male or a female at some point it starts
to get ridiculous that's obvious there
are gender differences and they're
totally cool we're just a bit different
there's no better or worse it's just
different right some people say well you
know women can be just as tough as men
like us hold on is toughness like the
best thing in the world like you know
it's like Albert Einstein known for his
toughness like that's ridiculous there's
tons of other great things you can be
and tough is just the stupid male brute
version of seeing the world so if you're
cool with understanding that some people
are different even forget gender for a
sec some people just don't push as hard
as others your boy right here I fake all
my shit everybody knows I don't go to
failure that's all nine RAR did I do
some self-work I'd go to 7rir I feel
like I wouldn't have failure in all as
well so it's just something to think
about for yourself and uh push yourself
as hard as you can and understand that
if you're female you may be encountering
some kind of uh guard rails that you can
break through potentially
in any case
some of this if you fix it can really
adjust all the other factors we talked
about earlier so for example one of the
reasons that females typically are able
to do set after set after set of high
intensity work better than males is
because their relative effort isn't as
high so actually they're saving a lot on
the tank that they might not even be
consciously aware of so if you get a
female and slowly over if you get a
female my new course on how to get
females okay
if you are in the position of coaching a
female and over the six months or so you
were collaborative with her and she ends
up becoming like a fucking demon Woman
Wonder Woman type shit and really
knowing how to push herself her ability
to crank outside after set after set
heavy might decline it was oh shit did
we break her no you turned her efforts
more effective percent which means her
total volumes can come down the use of
high RSM movements can come down and her
training can just a little bit uh start
to look a little bit more male-like
simply because the reason all uh half of
those female adjustments are made is
because that relative effort is lower so
if the relative effort comes up a lot of
the other female training stuff uh will
come up as well some stuff probably
won't change much um accumulation to
deload paradigms don't change much
because after a few days off doesn't
really matter how hard females work they
just heal faster than men so there's
some stuff that doesn't change but on
average it makes the training a little
bit more similar between the two genders
or Sexes I've never had anyone cogently
describe to me the difference between
those two but
uh more I say the more I'll get canceled
by either all right in cells or sjw
insane people
hello YouTube
number eight
technique and trainability back to
female Advantage so to speak generally
speaking females have better technique
to begin with you can show a female how
to do a technique and she goes okay and
she just does the thing right the first
time and with men you show them how to
do it and they're like oh sweet and
instantly they're there I was going to
say AI but they're a natural
intelligence processor as I gotta how do
I change this movement while learning it
to something stupider and more
egotistical like I bet I can do this and
not have to work as hard but also hurt
my back so a lot of times women are just
more trainable they're more coachable
they take coaching cues better A lot of
the time you know Jared and I and the
channel have trained lots of female very
high level athletes and we can't try to
hip tilt like this I'm like okay got it
and they try to fix it right away
whereas for men to give like the way
I've learned is shut up bro motherfucker
you don't know shit you can barely read
do what we say just kidding Namaste
everybody but a lot of times men will
give you that ego shit where women are
not as egotistical straight up and
certainly not in the in that way as
expressed in the gym and they're just
oftentimes can just be better
um coached
what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever made
get yours now
[Music]
another thing is women naturally and
with especially with coaching can learn
to prioritize their technique more than
the I need more reps and more weight on
the bar at all costs kind of shit that
men tend to do so if you uh coach a
female and somehow you know you go go to
Mars for example for six months you
leave her with some programs you sorry
there's no video on Mars Zoom doesn't go
that far and you come back and you watch
her training technique and you'll be
like damn Betsy apparently left the
1950s uh that's really good that's
almost exactly what we talked about and
some of it even looks better you leave
Jim Bob alone with that shit he's going
to be partial repping everything Eve
bowing it's going to be like uh he
turned into kiriako's Grizzly when you
were fucking gone if you don't know who
that is
Google uh not at work not at work at
work people might misunderstand it's not
pornography
well it really kind of is just Google it
not at work let me know what you think
comment below kiriakis Grizzly it's
going to be a Scott is going to be a
video about male versus you know
training differences and like 90 of the
comments are kiriakos grizzly references
do you know who that is
Google what are you doing
let me know when you're done Googling
yes very large very muscular very fat
and very hairy
he's like the father I never had in any
case females will go off plan less often
they're just better to coach in many
ways so this is like a really good thing
it's a cool thing
um as far as how to work with people I
guess the advice here is opposite if
you're typically used to working with
females as a coach and you start working
with some males you could be like wow
what the fuck is this guy doing he's
debating me on shit he's doing
everything wrong he's super interested
in just pring with fuck technique so you
might have to realign and be a bit more
patient with males that has certainly
been my experience
all right Max difference this one is
more fundamental but nonetheless
something to consider the initial size
difference uh females are significantly
smaller especially in the upper body and
the lower body as well even relative to
their body weight to males they tend to
have more body fat loss muscle so they
start out with less muscle and the rate
of gains initially that they make is
typically about the same as males but
remember it's a rate of gains based on
percentage so if you start at 100 pounds
of muscle and you gain you know half a
percent a week for the first whatever
number of weeks and if you start at 150
pounds of muscle you gain half a percent
you're actually gaining less if you
start out smaller and more if you start
out bigger I'm saying like Rich get
richer you know hashtag Marxism
it's definitely a joke
so there have been studies that have
shown that at least for some time
females at least make the same relative
gains
now what you're about to hear I have to
caveat is a personal hypothesis of mine
but nonetheless I think it might carry
some weight I do believe that the
available evidence on where people end
up at the end of their careers and we
have a shitload of data on that because
there's like a trillion female power
lifters bodybuilders all kinds of stuff
I think at some point past the beginner
stage females rate of gains do do reduce
and they actually gain slower than males
otherwise you know there's lots of males
that started out between 100 and 120
pounds 140 pounds when they started
lifting I'm one of them actually
and then they end up just getting to be
200 pounds plus lean and fucking
enormous but for females you almost
never see that like a very jacked ifb
Pro bodybuilder female weighs like 160
170. this is the most jacked females in
the world and you know some females
actually start out pretty fucking Jack
too so I'm inclined to believe in either
this will be embarrassing later and when
I'm wrong or uh the evidence will bear
me out fellas several years later when
people actually do the research on this
directly I think the female rate of
gains
um slows down now here's how to take
this ladies don't compare yourself to
the males like oh man Ronnie my fake
husband in this Ronnie not Ronnie
Coleman like Ronnie just eats whatever
and he just fucking games wrestling I
hate him and hate his abs I mean I love
him but I love his ants too but but I
hate him you know what I mean fuck him
he's so easy for him it's just gonna be
easier for guys to get jacked now if you
want to close the gap a little bit just
take the same testosterone exogenously
that guys produce endogenously which
will turn you into a guy in every
possible respect including clitoral
enlargement
[Music]
there hair on your face and all that
shit so fuck that so yeah you're gonna
have a tougher time gaining or another
better way to see it probably is like
your games will be a little slower which
is totally cool because you know what
I'm saying Namaste you gain at your own
ring and comparing yourself as a female
to other males is about as pointless as
comparing yourself as any human to any
other human being you just got to do the
best with what you have so that's all
I'll say for that
uh number 11 is related I guess I said
both of number 10 and 11 at the same
time so raid against females have
probably lower and for a variety of
reasons mostly because I think rate of
gains caps off towards the end females
cannot get as big or as strong as males
even if they start from the same place
on average put on the same amount of
work let me tell you exactly what I mean
if you find a hundred males that weigh
100 pounds on average to begin with and
100 females that weigh 100 pounds on
average to begin with and you have them
in this world where they think it's the
real world but it's not just one giant
sports science experiment
I'm not secretly building a machine to
do this by the way I will deny all
accusations
five or ten years later the males will
just get bigger and stronger than the
females I mean one is that there's
different genetics and like your genes
do fucking matter I know it's crazy and
also like males have more testosterone
like do you think steroids work that's
of course like well men are kind of on
steroids all the time compared to
females so it's not rocket science and
again the thing is as a female you know
just understand that like
shit is going to be a little bit less
exciting for you on the muscle gain
front
um
but uh females can still get super
fucking jacked and really really fucking
strong especially in the lower body but
in the upper body too and so really if
you're a female one of our one and a
half females that watches this channel
if you're training
and you're fucking growing and you're
making games just do that and you're
gonna end up being like shitting on like
70 of the guys at the gym I mean that's
fucking sweet like if you want to shoot
on 100 of the guys in the gym
robot limbs you didn't think I was going
to say that why would you have
biological limbs robot limbs are better
and mark my words as soon as robotic
limbs are commercially available and
objectively Superior to Conventional
limbs goodbye arms and legs
what an easy decision to make
in any case
a few more insights and to wrap it up
first of all
of this is meant on Good Feet
gender differences are real and they're
not good or bad they just are and then
we take what we have and we just try to
do our best with it right so I'm not
trying to say like oh females are worse
than males or males are worse than
females like being egotistical sucks and
this is a sense that it makes you make
some bad decisions sometimes as a male
being more egotistical than a female but
also ego is what pushes people forward
to do crazy shit some of which is really
impressive and really great
accomplishments everything's kind of a
unitying so that's kind of how I mean
that another thing is all of what I said
when I say females are better than or
males are worse than or whatever
it's all statistical averages it's two
distributions or normally distributed
bell curves and they sit like this next
to each other right so some of that shit
overlaps some doesn't so if you have a
comment in the comments which are always
welcome and also hello to our new
subscribers if we got any I think we got
any new subscribers today Scott's video
guy well half a subscriber one guy
subscribed many unsubscribe but that's
hey we gotta look we gotta look
um
if
you want to comment and say something
like well I know this girl that's
stronger than all the guys like
sweet
stats 101. there's gonna be you know for
every guy that thinks he's strong
there's Becca Swanson Google Becca
Swanson we are all Mortals in in her
wake and but you know there's also Brian
Shaw so like
yeah it's all averages so if there are
exceptions that's totally normal
exceptions are expected but averages are
important because they allow you to have
more realistic expectations of the world
and lastly because females have a
tougher time gaining muscle Etc and they
occur slower it's just unlikely that if
you're a female you're going to become a
mass monster by accident
um you know what I'm saying if you
worried about being a mass monster as a
lady you might want to take a few fewer
trips to McDonald's at night
that's how that mass really gets going
JK it's all love hey yo girl if you have
that McDonald's pick me up a shake and
come back to my crib
I'm married we could have a what's that
called Scott the video guy when another
person comes in Menage à trois yo Scott
are you French
we
no I said you not we
in any case all right folks
get out there go mingle you you young
kids and you're fun that you'll have all
the genders mixed together and uh lastly
last thing go to France get you a ticket
to Paris one way because you'll figure
it out climb the Eiffel Tower so to
speak
maybe be a spoke in the Eiffel Tower
I'll never forget that
thing that happened to me
I agree to it I think
that's how I'll remember that see you
guys next time