hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization welcome to video number 11
in our 12 part series about how to build
and maintain and use and benefit from
your hypertrophy workout plan
to that end
we have an app the RP hypertrophy app
and it does all these things for you it
allows you to build a plan and to Auto
regulate a plan and to finish the plan
and then to restart and make your new
plan it does all this it's really cool
and if you get the year it's like 30 or
more off than if you go month by month
so try it for a month and if you like it
and you're using it and you're like hey
like I'll have to pry this out of my
cold dead hands then um get the year and
the benefit of getting the year in
addition to that is I get a Year's worth
of your money and I run away to Scott's
video Guy where do people who have taken
someone's money illegally uh on Moss run
to
Namibia which has a level one CAA travel
advisory which means it's sweet so does
Botswana
for Africa baby in any case here we go
deloading that's the subject today
as you train hard adaptations accumulate
you increase in your strength your
endurance and best of all your muscle
size that's the whole point but fatigue
accumulates also and a lot of times we
say fatigue very generally on this
channel because we have other nerdy
videos that break it down but let me
break it down for you what we mean a few
examples of what fatigue actually is
micro tears on your muscle that don't
heal session to session week to week
completely so they start to get a little
bigger over time increasing your chance
of future injury
hormonal imbalances over the long term
of training weeks and weeks and weeks if
you go really really hard your
testosterone can start to decline and
your cortisol starts to come up bad news
neural fatigue your nervous system gets
tired and you can't heal appropriately
every single week it heals maybe 90 95
every week so that every week after it's
a little bit less a little bit less a
little bit less able to push your
muscles really hard and coordinate
you'll also notice that in the first few
weeks of your plan when you're not
really fatigued you're actually more
athletic and smooth and your Technique
is really good as you get more tired in
the later weeks of your plan you may
start to feel stiff and weird and
uncoordinated and that increases the
chance you'll get hurt in anyone
exercise and it's also awful and bad for
my muscle connection your glycogen
reduces so you have less and less power
to give and that's a bad thing now one
of the biggest problems with fatigue is
that it prevents you from actually
supplying a progressive overload If my
muscles are growing under the hood just
fine they grew from 100 pounds for 10
reps next week I'm doing 100 pounds for
11 reps they'll grow a little bit more
and a little bit more and a little bit
more over the weeks but what if I'm too
tired to get 11 reps and I go 100 for 10
again just from fatigue even if the
mechanism that grows muscle under the
hood is still very much intact and at
full power it's like okay this is just
more the same they're gonna grow as much
as I did last week a matter of fact much
less because your body doesn't really
like to grow muscle
how do we know this you have to go to
the gym and force it to do so if your
body like to grow muscle as much as it
likes to put on fat you could just eat
food and get mega hella Jack so because
it's resistant to muscle growth it needs
a novel overloading stimulus every time
it gets best results if you're so
fatigued that you can't get stronger
anymore you're too fatigued to present
your best overload and thus you end up
just spinning your wheels a lot because
you're going in and having hard workouts
but because they can get harder over
time you're really shooting yourself in
the foot that's one problem but it's not
the only problem there is a deeper
problem than this because you could say
well look volume is overloading so if I
can't get stronger I'll just add a set
every single time I come in and that
does work for a little while or it would
if not for the second much worse thing
mechanistically under the hood at a
molecular Machine level
high levels of fatigue tend to turn up
your catabolic Machinery that burns
muscle as you walk around train sleep
eat anything it burns more muscle all
the time that system is turned up one of
the examples of such a system is the
ampk regulator system
another thing it does is it turns down
the sensitivity and proneness of the
system that builds most of your muscle
an example of that is the mtor or Target
of rapamycin pathway it has a bunch of
Pathways going into it and shooting off
of it and a bunch of those Pathways as
you get more and more fatigue from high
volume training over and over any kind
of training over and over over time you
start to grow less muscle every time
you're stimulated and you grow less
muscle throughout the rest of the day
there's a real tragedy there if you
don't bring your fatigue down every now
and again if your fatigue gets up here
and it's chronically High
but sustainably it stopped going up it's
just high all the time and you're
getting a little stronger over time but
kind of similar strength you're doing
enough volume hypothetically that would
allow you to grow as the weeks and weeks
and weeks pass of you being exposed to
that chronically High fatigue
your catabolic Machinery is increasing
in its power your anabolic muscle
Constructor Machinery is decreasing in
its power so the turn dials are going
the opposite way which means that this
is the tragedy you're doing as much work
as you've ever done session to session
week to week logging it in your app your
app's adapting to all the stuff
and for what so that you can get almost
no gains because you are now a muscle
burning non-muscle building machine you
have engineered your systems to start to
act like that and here's the thing it's
tough to tell because you're going to be
roughly the same muscle size you can't
tell that you're making gains oh I got a
floaty in my face
get out of here floaty
it left politely
you can't tell if you're growing muscle
week to week to week that's fucking
impossible like your physique looks
roughly the same
so
you could do weeks and weeks and weeks
of training at a high fatigue State and
grow precisely this much fucking muscle
zero
you would be none the wiser because you
never brought the fatigue down under the
hood the Machinery is all fucked how
would you know that now to be honest
your pumps will get a lot worse
your ability to get delayed outside
muscle soreness will crash almost
through the floor such that you do 10
sets and basically just get really tired
for a few days but your muscles never
feel restore or pumped those are good
indicators but a lot of people say I
don't pay attention to that stuff anyway
which is like totally fine not to but at
the end of the day you're really setting
yourself up like look if you're not
going to grow muscle you might as well
train not at all or very little you
could not grow muscle doing those things
and you have plenty of time in the rest
of your day to do fuck off but if you're
going hours a week to the gym and you're
spinning your wheels that's a fucking
tragedy because you're pissing away all
that time and effort for nothing how do
you prevent that from happening is you
deload
by the way this wheel spinning thing has
been confirmed in direct studies as you
do more and more your ability to grow
muscle declines you need a refresher
every now and again to take that fatigue
bring it back down really close to
Baseline so you can set up another
productive multiple weeks if you are
training hard and properly
which is to be honest our Target
demographic for this hypertrophy app is
people who train hard and want to train
properly like like regular fit moms or
people in the gym doing fuck all they're
not going to pay money for this app they
don't need it they're not going to
benefit it's going to be a lot of
interfacing with a UI ux that they're
just going to be like I don't even know
why I'm doing this so for the people
that think for the people that want best
results that train hard
most of those folks are going to be able
to go for about four to six weeks of
hard training three to six weeks
and then need a deload very few people
can train real hard for five weeks plus
straight without benefiting greatly from
a deload so every four to six weeks for
most people volume and load and relative
effort should decline markedly less
weight fewer reps fewer sets not pushing
as close to failure
through that whole week of the deload
week
here's a good thing I've got no app demo
for you today because the app just does
all this for you and if I just scrolled
over to the dealer week and be like yep
that's another week with your sets and
Reps this is what it looks like
you'll know it's a dealer week because
you'll be like you'll forget because the
app takes care so much for you this
happened to me recently I was like oh I
got another training day today I click
on the training it's like 50 pounds for
eight rir and I was like what the hell
there's a bug in oh it's deload week so
it'll tell you to go easier it'll
automatically drop your weight it'll
adjust your sets it'll adjust your
repetition range Target it'll fix all
that for you so you don't have to think
anything about it one pro tip I do have
is the app still assumes you want to
show up to the gym the same number of
days
if you have some dealer workouts some of
them would be so easy
what I recommend you do is just condense
them so for example you have Monday
Tuesday Thursday Friday workouts four
times a week
what I would do for dealer week is on
Monday I would do Monday and Tuesday
it's going to take you just as long to
do as your normal Monday workout but
you're going to get Tuesday checked off
Tuesday Wednesday you don't even come to
the gym
Thursday you take a Thursday and Friday
workout you condense it into one workout
that's going to be super super easy you
get through in like 30 minutes
you train only twice that week Monday
and Thursday the rest of the week you
relax you eat plenty of food eat it
maintenance
take it easy sleep enjoy other hobbies
and then when you come back that next
Monday you were going to be fucking
ferocious Furious and ready to go at it
again and when you're ready to go at it
again you are going to want to build
your next program because you'll have a
new message cycle to build and that's
precisely what we're going to talk about
in our next and last video of the series
coming up this next week next Tuesday
and uh by the way Link in the
description for the RPI hypertrophy app
uh go have a look at it and buy it
please I need money I'll see you guys
next time