morning guys so my brother got in town
yesterday and he's actually going to
film school this summer so we're gonna
do some edits I think he's working on
one of those now last night we went for
a leg workout then we got some sushi and
now today filming for some stuff some
projects that he's working on and then
we're gonna go for a back workout later
this evening so I've got some egg whites
with one whole egg scrambled burnt them
a little bit some hashbrowns also burns
a little bit in some turkey bacon which
is in the process of burning and I'm
gonna have a fruit cup as well
all right guys all right guys so last
night my boy Pat and I went for a leg
workout like I said my brother filmed
for us and so basically I'll just take
you guys quickly through what it is we
did so I've been kicking off all my leg
workouts
unless I'm Dee loading with squats so
what we've been doing is having like a
benchmark weight that we just aim to hit
every day that we go in for legs for me
that's 365 and then based on how that
moves I'll either move up or I won't if
it moves fast I'll add 20 pounds or so
do that for another set of 5 and then
I'll move up until I get to the point
where I'm at about an RP of 9 so just as
an example last week I went in it was a
late workout it was like 10 or 11 p.m.
before we got the chance to Train I put
on 365 and for the first set of 5 that
moves super slow I was already at my RP
9 so I didn't actually increase I just
did straight sets with 365 yesterday I
went in the way it was moving super fast
I felt really good and so I went up as
high as 405 for my top set so then after
the squats we moved on to walking lunges
those I think right now are my favorite
exercise to target the glutes today I
can barely bend over to even put on my
socks in the morning
I'm just so sore and you know while
soreness isn't necessarily the best
indicator of muscle activation or even
less hypertrophy I do think it's a good
sign that you know you are hitting the
the target area that you're trying to
hit then we did some Romanian deadlifts
we were really focusing on like the the
stretch and the contraction really
focusing on getting a good mind muscle
connection rather than just moving the
weight so we actually went quite a bit
lighter than we did in the last two
weeks and then we finish off with some
leg curls and leg extensions more in the
like metabolic stress zone so we were
doing 15 to 20 reps with those with a
really slow eccentric again on the the
lying leg curl and that's something I've
just been focusing on in general with my
training is really thinking about and
activate
the muscle that I'm trying to work if
that means that I have to bring the the
weight down a little bit then it's worth
it for me and especially with the
muscles that I've struggled with getting
a mind muscle connection with so things
like biceps where I tend to do a little
bit more cheating or hamstrings or rear
delts with those exercises I'm really
being careful to make sure that I'm
activating the muscle that I want to
activate and I've been really noticing
some good results because of that all
right guys so I'm gonna put the Edit up
on the screen Thank You Brad for this
awesome edit I hope you guys like it and
I'll see you guys in the next clip and
we're gonna hit some back tonight
you
and I really focus on form today
sometimes people tend to go too heavy on
these even though you can move the
weight
you
alright guys I hope that you like that
edit so I've got some work that I need
to get caught up on for clients some
programs and email stuff like that and
then for the rest of the day I'm gonna
actually gonna be helping out my brother
he's doing a film short so I'm gonna
help them out with some of that stuff
and we've got another edit coming later
this evening for a BAC day and it's
gonna be even better than the other one
because my brother had his camera died
just as we were about to go work out
yesterday for the leg day as we ended up
having to use like my phone and this
camera which is not a DSLR so the
footage tonight should be a lot better
and I'm super excited for that I'm gonna
have the camera like pointing this way I
can't switch over on this side or look
like I'm actually walking back this way
bribe right right so that's 180 hmm
Roxette a whole bunch of extras
I always wake up like usually three
pounds heavier the next morning and
that's just because it's so high in
sodium like yeah soy sauce and then
seaweed itself it's super high in sodium
as well so you're just gonna retain a
whole bunch of them so the next day I
always try to drink extra water I am
drinking just as an example this morning
well let me think yesterday warrant
yesterday morning I woke up 161 this
morning I woke up one six two five and
now already today it's like the middle
of the day and I'm still 165 which is
what I like normally way on any given
day so after like 12 hours or like 24
hours that water weight is just gonna
come right back out so I think that
eating sushi is fine if you are gonna
eat sushi I recommend going with like
traditional roles so like California
roll vegetable-based rolls rather than
like deep fried ones or like the ones
with water mayo and stuff like that
then also just keeping your water intake
up if you're deep into prep and you want
your lands to be more consistent than
refeeding with sue she's probably had a
good idea because you can expect to see
like a four or five pound swing Oh
another thing that I could have to say
actually I actually water down this so
like well I'm not gonna do it now but
when I'm at the restaurant I'll actually
see I'm not gonna do it now but when I'm
at the restaurant
I'll water down the soy sauce a little
bit so I'll just like siphon up a little
bit of water with my straw and then
squirt it into the soy sauce just to
bring this sodium count down a little
bit and I do find it is just like a
little bit too salty
so it tastes a little bit water better
when you follow on an intuitive eating
plan you kind of eat slowly and I could
easily some access that but I feel full
so it's gonna be it for me for that meal
and I also didn't eat a lot of protein
in that meal so I'm gonna have protein
shake
my protein is strawberries this stuff's
pretty good it's not as good with water
though it's really excuse me it's really
good with milk and this this is Costco
this is Costco the other type of way and
fit the stuff is this stuff is actually
okay I think I'm gonna go with this one
I said this in other videos but I don't
know I've got a bunch of new subscribers
I think so
one thing you guys want to do when you
are checking out different types of way
is look at the ingredients and see if
there's either glycine towering or
creatine added and if they add those and
that means that the protein is immuno
spiked so the nitrogen content when it's
analyzed is measured higher than what it
actually would then what the protein and
it would reflect so basically it's junk
and there's not as much protein as the
label claims so you always want to make
sure you're checking that I remember a
nice you probably like four or five
years ago there was a guy on the
bodybuilding.com misc who ran a bunch of
different types of protein through
through his lab like through his
undergrad lab and he analyzed like the
amount of protein in each different
types of whey and I remember that the
Costco Kaizen way was like the highest
so something like 90 or 95 percent of
the value cleaned on the label and the
worst one was it was a Walmart brand I
forget what it was I think what might
have been six star and it was only like
15 or 20 percent of the amount of
protein I was cleaned on the label which
is crazy so you want to be careful and
make sure you home with the brain set I
don't know is it is established that
this trust worth it my experience the
best way to to check for that is by
having some sort of third-party testing
or by I mean if you don't have that then
just check it ingredients
oh and one thing that I could have done
probably should have done is you want to
try to eat a little F at your meal it
have your protein shake before the meal
not after it like I did because weight
protein has like kind of like a unique C
sheet in effect so if you eat it before
your meal you'll probably be less likely
to overeat and that's particularly
useful if you're tracking matter
alright guys so we just got here at the
gym we're gonna hit a back workout the
clip just before this is my pre-workout
meal so you know since Robin has been
gone I've been getting more and more
lazy with my meals so for breakfast I
had egg whites and hash browns then
leftover sushi then a protein shake and
then egg whites and hash browns again so
I decided that actually what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna put this workout in the
next vlog just so that I don't have to
edit in the one block so that is going
to conclude this one guys thank you so
much for watching if you liked the video
don't forget to hit the thumbs up button
and I will see you in the next creating