it is a physiological fact skeptical
eyebrows activate that during exercise
sustained attempts at high-intensity
training does little in the way of
stimulating further growth so this is
just what I would like to call
categorically
[Music]
false hey folks Dr Mike here for
anization I'm a professor of sport
Science and a competitive Grappler and
bodybuilder and well Scott the video guy
and I did kind of a bad thing we broke
into grandma attic rumaging through her
stuff but good news we found some old
Mike mener VHS I think
tapes that have all the secrets of
high-intensity training now brought to
you live sort of uh let's take a look at
them and see what we can find all
right a look at high-intensity training
cool the Revolutionary concept of
high-intensity training has been
recognized as the ultimate method for
increasing muscular size and strength
Okie doie propaganda 101 has been
recognized as the ultimate method by who
there were zero governing bodies of any
sports medicine associations or training
colleges at the time that recognized it
as the ultimate method and that number
continues to stand at zero in perpetuity
so uh this you can almost certainly say
is factually incorrect proper
understanding of high-intensity training
will provide you with the knowledge
required to ensure optimal results from
your
effort optimal high intensity training
is the best for everyone in every case
it's not just an effective method that
you can try like the RP pery app it's
optimal and proper and all the good
things and I think that's one of the
reasons why Mike mener are so
inordinately popular even today
postumus is because he had this Aura of
there's all this bullshit out there and
there is ideas about how of train so
much fucking noise he was like you
skinny kid in the back Harry Potter look
him up look up you're like yes I got the
answer for you and it's two things
insanely simple and brutally difficult
what do you say they're like what that
sounds like it matches my male pseudo
rightwing proclivities quite well sir
sure does kid here's hit go be an
adherent of it and get in our comment
section and fight other people about it
I ain't lying when formulating a high in
training program the first thing to do
is arrange the exercises in their proper
sequence it is a physiological
fact skeptical ibrow activate that
during exercise the larger muscles of
the body demand more energy than the
smaller ones that's true it is
advantageous therefore to work the
largest muscles first false you work the
muscles first that are two things one
your highest priority muscles that you
want to get the biggest and strongest
because they are the freshest at the
beginning of exercise and two muscles
that are not limiting factors for other
muscles that if they become tired the
other muscles later are really really
difficult to train for example if you
wanted to train your ability to deadlift
and train your grip you probably don't
want to do grip first and then deadlift
because your tired grip will severely
deteriorate the quality of the
deadlifting but you could do it in
reverse however if you're training
something like biceps and back it's not
true to say that back has to go first
just because it's the biggest muscle it
may be very well
that your biceps are absolutely your
primary priority and back is secondary
if that's really the case yes you should
probably train your biceps early if not
first in your plan and you can use
movements for the back like lat prayers
and some variations of pull Downs that
don't tax your biceps as heavily and can
still be effective for you after you
train your biceps so the idea that
larger muscles should be trained before
smaller muscles is not a categorically
true statement from there you can
proceed to work the other major muscle
groups of the body in descending order
from the largest to the
smallest yeah violates the idea of what
you're prioritizing so if you wanted
really big delts and you didn't really
care about your glutes and you could
train your glutes much after you train
your dels but that would be in violation
of what Mr Mike mener is saying here so
you would be wrong actually wouldn't be
wrong he would be wrong it is absolutely
essential to warm up properly before
engaging in any intense physical
exercise St stretching before working
out reduces your strength and power
output levels and thus unless you're
doing it because you have some kind of
chronic injury that unless you stretch
it out it goes very poorly sort of like
foam rolling it's probably not a good
idea to do it they didn't know this at
the time there was no literature on this
so this isn't like Mike mencer's an 88
or some shit it's just an honest mistake
but another good thing about if you
overinvestment of high-intensity
training and Mike mener fanboying and
look Mike mener is dope motherfucker man
there's plenty of shit to Fanboy him
about but you got to understand the shit
is sort of outdated and that means a lot
of the shit he said was so super dope
and super true but a lot of the shit he
said was just fing wrong and this is one
of these things although you know what
I'm saying if I'm training with a woman
that flexible I'm trying to get her to
do as many stresses in front of me as
possible H don't tell my peole
officer this acts as a safeguard against
possible
injury what the fuck is up with her
outfit Scott them them ain't bare
titties are they no but it's like flesh
yeah the nipple is flesh colored because
it's made of Flesh damn dude the 80s yo
Coke me up then move immediately to the
workout so as not to lose the benefits
of the warm-up also true if you warm up
and you go take a drink and you go to
the bathroom you start taking selfies if
you're dick I always do this you start
talking to boys in the bathroom after a
while they're looking through your phone
on your selfies like that one's good
don't send her that one because it looks
small thanks fellas you high five each
other look at each other's cocks 30
minutes later I'm back to work on like
do I need to warm up again emotionally
I'm very warm for being in a men's
bathroom for a long time physically I
could do another warmup if you guys are
liking this we have an extended edition
with tons of raw uncut footage of who
knows what that's in Our member section
give it a look to ensure that the entire
muscle is worked it is important that
you perform all of the exercises through
a full range of motion this is generally
very good advice I will say that recent
research quite a bit of it
actually has Illustrated that maybe the
full range of motion isn't the best to
best but whatever range of motion you do
the Deep super big stretch has to be a
critical component to maximize your
hypertrophy outcomes so you don't have
to train with the full ROM but whatever
part of the range of motion you cut out
should not be that deep stretch and when
you see people in the real gym squats
benches push-ups which part they cutting
out that deepest stretch to the muscle
part that's the one you don't want to
cut out so for the 80s training with a
full- range motion was very very good
advice and I would say quite AP
you must move from a fully extended
position to a fully contracted position
Mike's got great technique man this is
really good technique it's good for
people to train like this it really is
he he he he almost always had really
good technique because of that
meticulous mindset he brought in like he
was such a Precision oriented person
that if you were like yeah just kind of
move the weight around he'd be like what
so he had to make these ideas up about
full range emotion very good technique
and many of them paid off once the fully
contracted position is reached pause
momentarily before lowering yeah you
don't have to pause momentarily it's
probably just mostly a waste of effort
so I'd say in most cases you just get up
to the fully contracted position and
reverse direction under control back
down to the fully stretched position but
this isn't terrible advice just trying
to give you guys a bit more insight on
what modern sport Science has to say on
the matter aggressive overload is the
Cornerstone of an effective weight
training program add more weight do more
repetitions this is how you continue to
improve accurate very good stuff one of
the best things about the high-intensity
training philosophy is they try to get
objective and they try to send landmarks
and they try to kind of aim for higher
and higher and higher in slow
incremental steps a lot of folks that
trained before and many folks that still
train today Samson look they'll go in
the gym and just do stuff and they'll
train hard and that is 90% of the fun
and the effect but there is a
meticulousness that comes from from
tracking and setting little progress
goals it feels very good because you
know you're on track and also you're
making sure to challenge yourself
appropriately to really push yourself
it's only if you challenge yourself
appropriately regularly do you know when
fatigue is high enough for you to need
to back off if you just don't feel like
lifting you have to ask yourself the
question am I just being a little bitch
or am I really overreached you never can
tell unless you have an objective
performance goal last week I benched to
25 for 14 reps if I can get it for 15
this week I'm definitely coming back to
train next week because I'm still up if
I did 14 last week but I got 13 this
week and I'm cooked yeah maybe next
week's going to be a D Lo so the
high-intensity training mindset of
writing everything down following the
log book which you could do with the RP
hypertrophy app the most advanced log
book in the
world what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever made
get yours
now but anyway um just whether you use
the RP app or use you know just actually
notepad on your phone it's really good
to keep track of stuff and make a little
goal little 5 PBS in the bar here one
rep
here and you slowly walk your way
towards gains it clarifies the subject
considerably people kept track and log
booked their training for Generations
before high-intensity training took hold
in the ' 80s but they made it the most
popular and explained it the best and
for that reason even though you'll see
many videos of me talking that shit
about Mike mener and hit because I got a
lot to say that's critique worthy I'm
still and we are still eternally
indebted to this philosophy for trying
to make some goddamn sense out of the
lifting World instead of settling for
Joe
The Bouncer from New Jersey he like
overthinking it just go in there LIF
hard wait boom boom boom hey thanks
buddy good advice recommended is the
following method of progressively
overloading the muscles hey Scott how
much meth do you think he's on in this
video this pose is pretty damning pretty
damning guys again not to be derisive
but Mike benser was known for being
addicted to methamphetamine you know I'm
addicted to a few things
myself I was going to say all kinds of
things that would get me banned on
YouTube all right very well you can feel
free in the comments to let me know what
I'm addicted to it's probably true first
choose a weight for each exercise which
barely allows the performance of eight
repetitions in perfectly strict form
this is very good advice as with much in
hit it's too specific almost everything
that H philosophy says is true but what
they say it's this is true and this and
this and this and this above Beyond to
the left to the right is all false this
is true the reality is that most of hit
is right on the money but there's a very
large circle around it of also true
things some of them even better than hit
uh so is it true that eight repetitions
is a very good place to start a
resistance training program yeah hell
yeah checks all the boxes is that
necessarily the case that it's the
optimal or the best or the only no not
even close and we have really good idea
now that challenging yourself with
anything between five and 30 repetitions
seems to have roughly equivalent effect
on muscular hypertrophy muscle growth so
eight is definitely between 5 and 30 but
there's a lot of options there and you
can feel free to be much more creative
than just eight reps when you have
progressed to the point of being able to
perform 12 repetitions add about 10%
more weight to the bar or stack your
goal again being a progressive increase
of intensity and workload placed on the
muscle so this is an interesting
progression where they start at eight
reps they go up uh adding repetitions
until 12 reps and then they put 10 more
per of the weight on get you back to
about eight and then you restart that's
cool there's a couple other ways to do
it one of them is you start at whatever
let's say eight reps it doesn't have to
be eight and then you actually put two
and a half or five pounds more on the
bar each time and try to match the
repetitions so it's eight and then eight
and then eight and then eight but each
time it's a little bit more weight
little bit more weight little bit more
weight so at the end of that process
you're still doing sets of eight but
you're using the 55b dumbbells instead
of the 60s a lot of times loading can
give you smaller increments of progress
than Reps for example let's say you're
squatting 405 lbs for a set of six I
mean that's to the Limit basically
failure if you're well
Tred it's going to take take you a long
time to add a whole new rep if 405 for
six is hard for you and you're pretty
advanced in the squat you might train
weeks if not
longer until you successfully lift 405
for seven and weeks if not months until
you hit 405 for8 and then 405 for 10
that may not happen to you for years if
if if sometimes if ever but the jumps
are so large one extra rep when you're
typically doing six reps of 405 is so
much more physical work and the degree
of difficulty in relative terms is huge
17th is like about 14 or some shit
14% if you go from 405 for six to 405
for 7 you're essentially increasing the
difficulty by 14% just going up one
increment one rep if you use
load you can put 2 and A2 okay let's go
up higher five PB on the bar from 405
for six to 410 for six it's a much
smaller much more realistic increment
and you don't have to go weeks and weeks
in the gym going four or five for six
four or five for six four or five for
six four or five for five I got fatigue
D Lo four or five for six finally four
or five for seven it's actually a lot of
monotony because you can't just add a
rep to shit especially in the low rep
ranges all the time unless you're just
starting out or you really just changed
exercises early but adding load
especially on small margins 2 and 1/2 lb
5 lb is much more realistic adding reps
is totally cool if you can do it and
sometimes like with dumbbells you go
from 15 reps to 16 to 17 18 20 that is
small margins but especially for lower
reps especially if you're Advanced
adding load can give you the small
margins which you can actually
successfully get stronger at that pace
and thus you can make these small gains
versus having to do the same shit over
and over again as your body adapts to
increasing levels of train intensity and
stress higher levels of intensity will
be required to further stimulate
muscular growth accurate the tendency
will be a desire to do more this however
is neither desirable nor
possible oh boy here comes the low
volume bullshit your muscles get used to
a certain amount of stimulus there's a
desire to do more to get better results
it's actually true beginners can grow in
very low volumes that for intermediates
cause only stagnation intermediates can
grow on volumes which for the advanced
in some cases cause well either really
shitty gains or only stagnation as your
body gets used to training its work
capacity improves and that means that if
the work capacity is in order and is
higher and if your recovery ability
still hasn't been maximized doing more
volume that's right more sets which the
hit folks didn't like at all is actually
a great way to continue to challenge the
muscles if you start by doing one set of
bent rows to get a big back when you're
15 years old and weigh 110 lb it is a
very curious thing indeed to expect you
to maximize your back hypertrophy by
ever only doing one set of bent rows
with even if it's hundreds of more
pounds your body is much more adaptable
and can and will grow if when your
recovery is totally permissible to it
you add a set here and there so maybe
you do one or two sets When You're 15 by
the time you're 20 maybe five or six
sets is what you need by the time you're
28 maybe 7 8 9 10 sets is really what's
going to hit The Sweet Spot of course
you don't just want to layer in
pointless volume thinking the more I do
the more I'll grow you have a recovery
limit and the hit folks are really good
about talking about that but you don't
want to get caught into this trap of
never increase volume we can make a
contrary argument as Say Never increase
intensity and we just about us right
which is to say wrong about that as well
you can train hard or you can train long
you just can't do both don't I know that
I don't mean training
never been hard what sustained attempts
at high-intensity training does little
in the way of stimulating further growth
instead what results is a reduction of
the body's recuperative abilities yeah
so this is just what I would like to
call categorically false they have
tested single set versus multi- set
protocols and in almost every single
case multiset protocols elicit more
muscle growth even in beginners there
were few studies done ear
much later than this video was made that
showed that in the first 3 weeks or so
you had roughly similar results from
single set and multiset programs but
after three or four or five or six weeks
the curves for progress from the single
set and multi set split up and the multi
set programs took off while the single
set programs didn't cause as much
hypertrophy so no it's just not true to
say that adding volume doesn't work it
really does there are limits to it but
it really does work the important point
to remember here is that you will grow
progressively larger and stronger
muscles only when you train with
increasing levels of intensity this is
universal and applies to all human
beings true but how much how much volume
don't however worry about your
individual potential potential is only
the expression of a possibility
something that can be assessed
accurately only in retrospect again come
back to the thing that Menor had a lot
of why shit to say this is so good
people are so concerned about their
genetic potential what you think man do
I got what it takes takes for what
mother the only way you're really going
to find out is if you really dial in
your nutrition really dial in your
training do a good not great good job on
everything and just see if you get
pretty jacked and if the gains are
keeping common then you're saying hey I
got good potential just do your fing
best time will sort out how good the
results are and look they're going to be
better than zero so you're going to have
something to show for it whether you
look like pathetic and shriveled up like
me or amazing and jacked Like Mike
answer uh time will tell and eventually
you'll be like oh is this the thing I
want to continue doing or do I look
enough like Dr Mike that I should just
quit weightlifting like he should have
quit it years
ago yeah I'll see myself
out in other words you'll never know how
good you might have become unless you
try so let's get with it very very very
good advice all right folks that was
really fun we only watched kind of half
the video there's another half where he
actually goes through a program and
talks about it if you guys want want us
to review that part let us know in the
comments and maybe we'll get to it if
you guys want us to review other lifters
other bodybuilders from history other
philosophies throw it in the comments
let us know and if you don't have any
ideas of your own but you notice someone
put something interesting give that an
upvote so that we get to reviewing and
commentating from a place of well good
faith and hopefully some knowledge on a
bunch of stuff that you guys want to
know about because at the end of the day
that's wor about at RP is increasing
level of knowledge so that you get more
results so you finally in my case get
laid and in your case probably for the
hundredth time anyway go out there and
get laid um I give Mike mener a respect
out of 10 for uh just being really cool
and trying to organize lifting into a
logical structure did he get it all
right no did he get all wrong not even
close tons of good gems maybe we'll do
another video about him and review some
of those see you guys next time all
right folks that was really fun
hopefully you had some lulls if you want
the ls to continue YouTube says you
should watch this video and uh really
YouTube is correct about a lot of
[Music]
things