what the hell is a high friction machine
well if you think about it if you're
moving around dumbbells or barbells the
friction is like the air which is to say
almost zero if let's say you're in a
real Rusty Smith machine and you push
the bar up you can feel the friction of
the machine like you have no weight on
there and it feels like 80 pounds but
then when you let go of the bar it
frictions back so it's like you actually
have to pull the bar down to get it
extreme example but in any case think
about a machine that has a high degree
of friction inside this High degree of
friction reverses let's say a very
well-oiled Smith Machine versus a very
poorly oil Smith machine one has a lot
of friction when does not may lead to
some predictable effects that could
impact hypertrophy