this is a famous Fitness YouTuber let's
see how much he actually knows about
Fitness for every question he gets wrong
I'm going to add a plate which head of
the shoulder is most active on this
exercise lateral head how many calories
are in one gr of fat nine can you name
the three BCAAs I don't know dang it
what muscle is shown here the lad who is
the Mr Olympia for open bodybuilding
right now derck wford what muscle is
shown here I don't that is the bracho
radialis it's actually working pretty
hard which protein source is higher in
Lucine per gram of protein whey protein
or chicken breast chicken breast what is
the most studied form of creatine mooh
hydrate good job what is the scientific
term for the negative on a lift entri
are the muscle fibers of the Solus
mainly fast twitch or mainly slow twitch
slow you're right let's go give me an
example of non exercise activity
thermogenesis typing on a computer what
does rpe stand for a rate of perceived
exertion it's rating of perceived
exertion