[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is Rachelle here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video number 15 matching
your training to your diet we have other
videos on YouTube to cover this
hypertrophy guide central hub and we
have a bunch of books the Renaissance
diet 2.0 look that up for much more
detailed guide this is the super
quickest guide on the internet you'll
ever see to matching your training to
your diet here's the deal
when you are dieting to gain weight and
hypothetically gain mass you train
normally like we've described in all of
the videos before minimum effective
falling to maximum recoverable all the
intensities so on and so forth no big
deal for maintenance dieting when you're
not actively trying to gain weight to
put on muscle or lose fat you can train
normally and see some gains especially
if you're beginner intermediate as you
get to be more advanced if you want to
save the maintenance base for low volume
training to recoup and recover so that
you can go back to doing training and
gaining phases sooner or fat loss phase
of sooner because those are the real
meat potatoes phases that make you
better maintenance phase doesn't make
you better as much as it's more of a
break especially when you're advanced
for more details on how to do live Olly
maintance paces check out vo number-11
in this series lastly what do you change
for fat loss dieting here's the deal you
train normally but you make smaller load
and repetition jumps week to week
session to session because your fatigue
window is a very narrow you accumulate
fatigue very quickly you don't adapt as
quickly so you have to make much smaller
incremental steps in how many reps you
add or way you add and so on and so
forth
same thing with sets you're not gonna be
able to add as many sets and because
fatigue accumulates very quickly on fat
loss phases your maximum recover all
volume comes down to meet you to you MRV
per week mean normally beam as an
example 20 sets per week you start at
your normal you know minimum effective
volume maybe 10 you start at 12 or
something just to offset the catabolism
and you say okay I'm gonna get to 20 you
may actually have
stop at 16 or 17 because your MRV has
descended due to that really catabolic
really high fatigue environment so don't
expect to get to your normal volumes
just do your best to Auto regulate train
nice and hard but don't expect to be
breaking any crazy PRS and lastly do not
prioritize any muscle groups
prioritizing muscle groups is pointless
because you don't even have the
resources to grow them they could
training them extra hard but how come
you're not even eating enough to grow
them extra hard and worst part is
training some muscles extra hard on a
priority phase means you train other
muscles not as hard and then those not
as hard muscles are gonna lose muscle
potentially so when you're dieting for
fat loss you train everything rather
evenly folks give that some thought
best of luck see you next time for the
last video in the series