[Music]
good morning everyone today I figured
I'd do a quick little vlog for you guys
I've been producing a ton of science
explained content vlogs are a little
easier for me to do and I also like to
show you guys some of my own fitness
journey and kind of what I'm up to and
as you can see Stephanie and I have
decorated the place for Christmas there
this is our tree over here you still
didn't put some more bulbs on these are
stockings right here J and s my favorite
ornament PhD graduates Stephanie butter
more and then everything else is kind of
just generic I feel like we need to need
to step off our one-man game a little
bit probably gonna put this up over here
when I'm like doing work in the house I
feel like I just need to move around and
like I do a lot of work on the computer
so I feel like just having like a hoop
set up here somewhere I'm gonna give you
guys a quick update just gonna lay the
camera down here this morning I woke up
173 point 2 pounds I think and you guys
will see I finally hit that upper cap of
body fat percentage that I was aiming
for so that's 2000 point zero percent
and this morning was actually the first
time that I've hit that today what this
means for you me now is that this is as
fat as I want to get granted I think
that this scale does over-report body
fat percentage a little bit so I think
this is probably more like a true 15 16
something like that but regardless this
is what I've been using the whole time
so that's what I'm using kind of as my
gauge so from this point what I'm gonna
be doing is running a mini cut so I'm
actually not going to start that until
January just because I don't want to be
in a deficit over Christmas and that
sort of thing so what I'm gonna do is
sort of tighten up my bulk a little bit
at this point I'm gonna get back to
tracking I did try a couple days ago I
don't track every day but just to give
me some rough ballpark of where I am and
I'm gonna do that a little bit more
diligently now moving forward that I've
sort of hit that 20 percent cap just to
make sure I'm not pushing my body fat
percentage higher than I want it to go
so I'm gonna try to get my body weight
up to 175 pounds
and I think I can get there that's just
another two pounds without really like
overshooting my body fat percentage too
much then once I get to 175 hopefully
that'll be really early January and then
at that point I'll begin my mini cut so
I'm gonna cut
I think only four four maybe six weeks
and my goal will be to be down six to
eight pounds so I'm probably gonna lose
about a pound and a half per week
that'll be a little bit more of an
aggressive mini cut and the reason why
I'm doing that is basically threefold
first is to improve my body composition
a little bit basically I don't feel
comfortable going over twenty percent
body fat
I feel like that'll basically leave to
too soft of an appearance and with the
bear mode bulk finding that sweet spot I
think is really important because if you
push it too far you're gonna end up
looking too soft and I think that you'll
just lose that sort of definition and
what this can do especially if you're
shirtless and you're posing is actually
just make you look a little bit smaller
because where you'd normally have a
little bit more roundness to your muscle
and a little bit more of a pronounced
cut say in your shoulder your arms and
your chest what-have-you if that sort of
flattens out a little bit with too much
body fat you can actually look smaller
with your clothes off or with your shirt
off walking around you probably will
look bigger because you tend to fill it
out more but I think that there's a
sweet spot there and for me I think that
sort of caps out around twenty percent
so in my case I want to keep making
progress the best that I can but yet
still be at a comfortable body
composition and I think that doing
periodic mini cuts is the best way to do
that then that way once I get back to a
slightly leaner body comp I can put
myself in a surplus again and then
continue making that sort of expedited
strength and size progress unit gym as a
result of being in a caloric surplus
which I do think while not required for
making progress it definitely makes
progress faster the second thing is that
it's going to improve my appetite so at
this point now I'm definitely above my
body fat setpoint so when my body likes
for me to be and so I'm finding that I'm
just really not hungry at all but I do
think that if I do a cut for like four
to six weeks
I'll get my appetite back and then I'll
be able to eat in a surplus more
comfortably again and thirdly it allow
me to basically assess my progress
better so like I said when you get a
little bit softer a little bit bigger
it's kind of hard to tell
visually where the muscle is sort of
being added and what sort of progress
you're making so for me it's a little
bit motivating just to be a little bit
leaner and then you can sort of see the
progress happening a little bit more
clearly if that makes sense those are
the main three reasons why mini cutting
but if you want to hear more technical
stuff about how it is I run a mini cut I
actually did a video like two or three
years ago so I'll link that in the
description if you'd like to check it
out so another thing that I recently
started doing is mourning fasted cardio
and I don't think there's anything
special about doing it fasted but I do
find that it sort of wakes me up for the
day
it helps energize me and it also picks
up my appetite a little bit so I find my
appetite is actually the worst in the
morning and then it picks up throughout
the day but when I do fasted cardio
after that I find I start to feel a
little bit hungry
so that's been a great thing I'm so
Stephanie and I have both been doing
that it's also I think improving my
cardiovascular endurance so let's just
say I'm doing like high rep walking
lunges I'm really out of breath by like
say the second set which isn't great and
that's not good for being able to
perform as much volume as I think I need
to to make progress so the simple fix
here is just to improve your work
capacity by improving your
cardiovascular conditioning and it's
also allowing me to sort of create time
to do a bit of reading so for example
this morning I read another piece in the
latest issue of mass and this one was
actually on a really interesting topic
and I think it was the first study of
this kind I'll just quickly tell you
guys about it basically a compared auto
regulated exercise selection to fixed
exercise selection so most training
programs that you see will use a fixed
exercise selection so that basically
means you have like your six or eight
exercises that you're gonna perform
every day and they're sort of set in
stone whereas an auto regulated exercise
selection strategy gives you say I don't
know two or three different exercises
that you can pick per body part and then
based on how you're feeling that day you
pick one of them and this isn't all that
popular in programming in my experience
but it is something that I've used
myself what I'll do is I'll have a
couple exercises that'll be like my main
movements so let's say like a squat and
a dumbbell Romanian deadlift and then
the other exercises I'll fill in based
on you know
machines are available or what I feel
like performing that day and it gives me
that variety which i think is important
for me a lot of this does really seem to
depend on personality type some people
like to have something set in stone
that's rigid and solid and it allows
them to really hone in on tracking their
progression and whereas other people
like to have a little bit more
flexibility with their training
interestingly but this study showed was
that the auto regulated exercise
selection allowed for improved strength
in the squat improved strength in the
benchpress and also increased muscle
mass overall however the way that the
study was set up was that for the fixed
group there was a full body program and
there were I think six or so exercises
that they'd perform each day and they
trained three days a week so they do say
on day one the squat and then the
benchpress and then some other exercises
like a barbell row or whatever and then
on day two I think they do the leg press
for their lower body and then other
fixed exercises and on day three they do
the leg extension and then a bunch of
other exercises whereas the auto
regulated exercise selection group could
pick one of the three so they could
either do the squat or the leg press or
the leg extension what happened was that
group just so happened to end up picking
the squat in the bench press more
frequently so it makes sense that if
they were doing those exercises more
frequently then they would see better
results the PO with the squat and the
bench press and then also since you know
the squad is gonna activate a lot more
muscle mass than say a leg extension
would it would make sense that the group
doing the squats more frequently would
see an increase in muscle mass as well
practically speaking what we can take
away from this study you know it seems
to be the case that if people have a
little bit more of a sense of agency or
a sense of autonomy with their
programming they may perform better or
they tend to perform better so I think
that the way I set it up is a pretty
smart way to do it because you get that
fixed component where there are certain
exercises where you can sort of have
your steady progression on and then
there are others where you can have that
degree of flexibility to pick and choose
according to how you're feeling that day
so I think that a blend of both can work
well for most people for coaches it
would be nice to have like you know an A
or B options so like let's say you're
doing a leg day and you have the squat
and remain
a deadlift set in stone for hamstrings
you could have no glue hem raised or
lying leg curl and based on how you're
feeling that day you could pick one or
the other on a day where you're feeling
a little more winded a little more taxed
it might be better to sort of lie down
and do an exercise that's a little less
globally fatiguing I'm days that you
feel really good and you just want to
kill it you could go in and do the
glute-ham race so this is a really
interesting study and yeah I'm basically
liking doing that morning cardio because
it allows me to sort of catch up on that
because I've become so focused on
producing content for the channel that I
don't want my own education to sort of
fall by the wayside okay so that's that
right now I'm gonna get some breakfast
and then rashon is dropping over a
little bit later he's gonna show me his
new fancy camera so I will check in with
you guys in a little bit pair with the
lens we just got what I use to film the
little clips when we did cardio this
morning I'm just gonna show in the
mirror so this is the one I'm vlogging
on so this is the sony alpha 6500 so
maybe you can see maybe you can kind of
tell the differences pretty crazy I was
gonna show you wrong check this out oh
yeah no that's not sinking somewhere
pretty rate that down 10 and I have to
run it back but I'm thinking of 7.5 see
replay in the house yelling at you two
Kiwis this time of year are not the best
I haven't been able to find Zespri Kiwis
at all I don't know if they stopped
daily shut down or what but in any case
all the Kiwis are coming from Italy or
the USA or Chile and those are not my
favourite imports of Kiwis so relying on
this Kiwi juice for the most part
so is there having a Kiwi today like a
half of one of those the nutrient
profile in music it's pretty good but
this isn't like pure Kiwi juice so it's
a little watered down I'm a huge fan of
up not sponsored or anything but I
really love the energy and so I'm
curious to see what Christian is doing
with it I love the white flavors they
don't ship to Canada so when you go back
to the States
you need to get in word please
yeah so guys right now Stephanie or Sean
and I are going over to my mom's place
she's got some chili cooking I think or
maybe it was soup I forget either way
we're gonna grab a quick meal over there
6:30 and then we're gonna go for a late
workout good life we're gonna do a chest
and shoulder workout and we're Sean's
gonna do and head to that so I'll check
in with you guys and my subscribers I'll
take one too and I don't want any of the
squash soup at the time it just all
right how are you I'm excited yeah I've
ever tried your squash suit before thank
know so let's see if you like it yeah so
this is the appetizer butternut squash
soup which is my favorite type of soup
and it's a green rolls that's good oh
it's the main course we've got some
turkey chili with what looks like pinto
beans some chicken chili here is the
dessert it's carrot cake homemade
delicious
this is Stephanie's favorite so we're
gonna finish eating this and then I'm
gonna have this high-volume
raspberry lemonade pre-workout it's
funny because I feel like I've said this
like too much on the channel but I gave
this one to my mom and this is the
second time now so my friend and
Newfoundland when I gave it to him he
was like Jeb I Ted I took this
pre-workout from you but I feel like
it's not working like I don't get any
energy off of this and then my mom just
said the same thing and so the thing you
got to remember is this is a pump
product even though it may also increase
your strength citrulline has been shown
to do that but this is mostly a pump
product so if you want to increase your
vascularity use this one so this is the
product that I use late at night when I
don't want to have caffeine prolific is
the product you want to use for like
morning and afternoon workouts because
it does have caffeine in it it does have
like more of a focus element so that's
the other pre-workout and there's a
difference between those two and then
the one that rashon loves
Oh mr. shamans a quick so alpha mean is
basically like their energy drink
product I don't usually use that one
because I'll have coffee and I'll just
have prolific which has has caffeine in
it for my pre-workout yeah this is what
we're gonna gonna have for this workout
and for the workout where Sean is gonna
do the best edit we've had on this
channel yet right no pressure
yeah so we're gonna get into that right
now
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
alright guys that's who the video thank
you so much for watching don't forget to
like the video also if you missed any of
my latest science explained videos I've
released I think three in the last two
weeks so make sure you check them out
I'll put two of them over right here so
you can watch those my hamstring and my
quad one and don't forget to subscribe
if you haven't already and I'll see you
guys in the next one