good morning guys
I just day two of our winter getaway we
eat breakfast and then go check out the
ski slopes I haven't skiied in years
probably
so so the circles are squares or
comedian these are hard these are the
ones I like to do these are the ones
Robin wants to do we're going to do one
of these
so guys Robin and I kind of randomly
decided to come to Prince Edward Island
so we've got this cottage here kind of
just overlooking the ocean so we're
basically right on the edge of the
island and over there is the
confederation bridge that connects
Prince Edward Island to a New Brunswick
this is the little place here
and now we're going to go train well I'm
going to Train chest shoulders and maybe
a little bit of rear delts I decided to
add rear delts on might push days in my
pull days since I feel as though they've
been getting a little less attention and
they deserve so see you guys in the gym
hey what's up guys so I wanted to do a
little commentary for you all sort of
guiding you through this chest and
shoulder workout or I should say
shoulder and chest workout I did kick
this workout off with shoulders and then
I got into some chest movements later so
you can see I'm kicking off the workout
here with this plate loaded machine
shoulder press this isn't a piece of
equipment that I have access to
regularly so when I see it I'm always
happy because it's an exercise that I
really like so on this day the reason
why I went with this as opposed to say
like overhead press or even a seated
dumbbell press is that I can kind of
push myself without having to in the
case of overhead press involve my lower
body so much as you guys would have seen
Robin and I did two full days of skiing
so my legs were pretty tired and so I
wanted to do something seated and when I
don't have a training partner with me I
find that just the effort involved in
getting the dumbbells up off of my knees
can be debilitating to the point that I
find like I'm not able to exert myself
quite as much throughout the set so this
was a really nice change for me I like
the plate loaded better than the se pin
loaded machine presses just because I
find I'm able to just get a better plane
of motion with these find like a lot of
the other ones are set up at a weird
angle and in order to get myself in that
mid frontal plane
I have to either turn around on the
machine or kind of put something behind
my back and that can be a bit annoying
so this is a great machine I worked up
to a heavy set of six and then I did a
triple drop set so back to three plates
two plates and then I burned it out with
one plate
so my next exercise was the standing
dumbbell lateral raise
obviously here I'm targeting the side
delt so the machine press would target
pretty much all three heads more so the
front inside then the rear delt but
that's to come later this exercise
predominantly hits the side delt a
couple of cues that I like to remind
myself of during and before the exercise
is to sort of keep my pinkies up and if
you look here on the side angle you'll
see that my pinkies aren't actually up
but this just reminds me to make sure
that the dumbbell is in fact coming out
to the side of my body and not to the
front and so that my shoulder is
positioned in a way that my front delt
isn't taking over so you can think of it
like kind of pouring out a glass of
water and then also I'll stop the range
of motion once my arms are roughly
parallel with the floor I don't go up
any higher than that so then I moved on
to this incline chest press machine I
think this is a great one for the upper
chest I found that with all of the
benching that I've been doing with a
massive
arch my lower pecs seem to be getting a
little bit ahead of my upper pecs which
obviously isn't good as a bodybuilder so
I'll actually be taking a little bit of
a break from the heavy bench pressing
and doing some more incline pressing in
this next block of training this is a
machine that I don't have at my gym but
it is one that I enjoy so I took
advantage of it while we were here and
interestingly there was a study done in
2010 by trebs at Al and they actually
found that there wasn't much
fronts between 0 degrees and 56 degrees
of bench inclination but they did find
that 44 degrees seem to be the sweet
spot so for me generally I try to go
anywhere between 30 and 45 degrees when
it when it comes to a bench angle when
I'm targeting the upper pecs another
exercise that I like to do for the upper
pecs which is inclined cable fly's
sometimes I will actually set up the
bench and do them that way but in this
case for the sake of time I just did
them with the low poly attachment orbit
the low pulley height and just kind of
flied upward and felt that mind-muscle
connection with my my upper pecs making
sure to kind of squeeze at the top and
get the full stretch at the bottom so
then it was on to rear delts for these I
did four sets of reverse dumbbell flyes
and then I moved on to reverse PEC deck
so there was a study done in 2013 by
bata natal that compared a bunch of
different exercises and rear delt EMG
activity so what they found essentially
was that the reverse PEC deck in the
incline lat pulldown elicited the
greatest rear delt activation out of the
exercises that they looked at seated
rows didn't do do too badly but pretty
much any of the horizontal presses like
bench press you're looking at like under
10 percent of EMG activity so not too
much activation of the rear delts there
which is why I think that doing
isolation movements for the rear delts
is extremely important and I don't think
that you should just rely on say rowing
movements or pressing movements
alright guys so that is going to
conclude this commentary I hope that you
enjoy this next clip and I will see you
guys in the next video today is
important if you order hi Gordon uh yeah
could we get a three piece chicken meal
with the salad please
Oh huh yeah what's that sorry calls for
the foul
uh do you have macaroni salad yeah I'll
get that please I want some cool stuff
oh yeah we'll add a coleslaw as well
actually so close just one coleslaw in
one macaroni salad or throw on a chicken
finger from you one chicken okay is it
possible to add one chicken finger or
like a couple yes is it going on oh I Oh
perfect all right we'll add one chicken
finger then I can cure that uh can we
have Diet Pepsi please love everything
yeah that's it so that's it took peace
with the coleslaw and a macaroni now
I've got two great plus one rustic
character yeah that's it except now
we're going to get a three-piece not the
2003 yep that comes to 1422 thank you
thank you
three four
you