this is not one of those I let myself go
and stopped lifting and sort of stories
it's a completely different story let's
get into
it I moved to the UK at around 90 kilos
that's around 200 lb and in the course
of 4 years I gained 45 kilos the year
2013 life is much simpler I'm just
starting my undergrad in sports science
and I am in love with lifting following
the first year at University I
discovered the best excuse to eat
unlimited calories power lifting not
only did I get to eat as much as I
wanted but I had to do it because I was
a super heavyweight strength athlete
cute rock music Y and as a Natty lifter
seeing your strength sky rocket is a
different feeling and gaining body
weight at least for the squat and the
bench press is a Surefire way to see
your absolute strength go up however
your relative strength may even go down
being able to Squad near 600 lb was cool
AF and I was having the time of my life
so I gave myself the Freedom Card of hey
you're going to gain as much weight as
You' like for these couple of years stay
active keep lifting my blood work was
always excellent my resting heart rate
as well I was in good health I have good
health genetics things were fun as hell
I was hitting massive uh numbers for me
at the time and I was just enjoying
eating whatever I wanted I had stopped
caring about my physique to the point
where I would show up in the gym in
actual uh leggings and a like an XXL
t-shirt and I wouldn't I didn't care but
wake up feeling bloated sluggish and
most importantly sad a F clothes had
started to be difficult to find being
that heavy for me was a first I was a
heavy kid but I was never going get
clothes off the special clothes shop
heavy I wasn't having as much fun
anymore because I was too heavy for my
liking and because I couldn't justify
being that heavy I am a relatively
strong individual I'm very strong for
General people standards strong for
commercial gym standards and thumbs up
strong for or just powerlifting
standards but I wasn't strong enough to
justify being 300 lb as I got into
Academia teaching research my identity
shifted from being just a lifter and it
became more than just that it became a
coach a researcher an academic during
those two three years where I was
gaining weight in my head I was pack the
lifter where it was all about the
numbers and all about the PRS as the
Great American philosopher Travis called
one said M balance find your balance
and that was a key theme in my head at
the time I needed to have more balance
in my life the time came where I needed
to address the elephant in the room and
that elevant was none other than me I
needed to achieve balance and I also
needed to find a way for me to enjoy
lifting enjoy food and be able to do
that while also feeling good looking
good and being healthy in the long term
I knew that my cut would be very long
and it would also need to be structured
in a way that it is sustainable allowing
me to actually lose weight maintain
muscle mass but have fun and not have
the stress off the cut being over my
shoulder at all times I could not
approach the cut with the warrior
mentality that the fitness industry
often promotes cuz that would lead to me
burning out and probably Calling it
Quits aside from being leaner a key
thing that I wanted to achieve was to be
able to have a healthy relationship with
food be able to have my YOLO days be
able to eat stuff that I enjoy but
without having to either go all out or
cut I was eating roughly 500 calories
below my maintenance I was prioritizing
foods that were high in fiber I was
eating 3 to six meals per day a high
protein diet around 1.6 to 2.2 G per
kilo of body weight I had cheat days
every two weeks or so one day where I
said you know what eat whatever you want
if you go crazy don't eat the next day
fast I I talk to myself the third person
I am crazy no you're not yes I am the
goal was to lose roughly 0.2 to 0.5
kilos per week another thing that I did
that was very helpful di break every 10
to 12 weeks we go back up to maintenance
strict maintenance train very hard enjoy
the slightly higher calories and then
after 4 to 6 weeks when we're ready back
in the deficit we go I averaged
somewhere between 10 to 15,000 steps per
day and at the same time kept my
training relatively flexible so I made
sure to train at least three times per
week hit the weights hard but if on one
day I wanted to do lat pull Downs versus
another lat exercise I just did it I
just keep kept things relatively high
intensity in terms of effort um and
still treat training as if I am chasing
PRS and as if I'm on a surplus the way I
evaluated each week was also something
that I really paid attention to so the
thinking was if did I lose weight if yes
then great if not that's fine worst case
scenario I ended up on maintenance
calories this week I still train hard
games were made Let's evaluate next week
and see if we need to drop calories
otherwise it may also just be one of
those weeks where the scale doesn't move
but you still end up losing weight one
thing I regret not doing back then was
measuring my Weist circumference
something that I do now uh religiously
just so I'm aware of where my body
composition is going regardless of how
the scale weight changes cuz that can
fluctuate quite a bit this is a fat loss
diet not a weight loss diet the goal is
to lose body fat not just drop ra
massive amounts of weight very quickly
see a number on the scale and then
potentially gain it back up I avoided
the whole social media pressure of the
cut I just kept it relatively lowkey and
just did my thing behind the scenes
without talking about it without saying
I'm on a cut without sharing any
progress pictures and saying yeah this
is how the cut went this week I just did
my thing aside from the mentality I had
certain things that I Placebo in my head
now placeboing things is an art that I
have invented I'm obviously patenting it
and you are liable uh to paying me money
whenever you use the word but joking
aside there were certain things that I
kept repeating to myself just to get me
this sort of positive mindset uh about
certain things one thing that I was
placeboing heavily was that I was at a
very high body fat percentage and that
that would make things much easier as
far as not losing a ton of muscle mass
especially because I was dieting very
slowly um at the same time I wasn't I
was eating a lot of protein and the fact
that I had a lot of body fight
percentage allowed me to Placebo the
idea of potentially also making some
gain so I was telling myself you know
what it may be possible we're at a very
high body fat percentage we're eating a
ton of protein we're still training hard
maybe I can lose some fat and gain some
muscle so I had approached this card
with a very positive mindset and I
didn't go into it thinking oh man I'm
going to be in a deficit I'm going to
lose my gains I'm going to be looking
smaller and so on and so forth the
mindset was purely hey B so you have a
lot of body fat on you you are going to
be losing fat slowly you're eating a lot
of protein you're strength training good
things may happen besides just fat loss
and now for the results as you can see
on your screen things went really well
so from 136 kilos being my highest
weight I went all the way down to $101
that was my uh all-time low I didn't hit
two digits and looking back in hindsight
I should have I should have hit that 99
but I didn't but as you can see from the
weight loss chart even though my weight
trended downwards it was constantly
going up up and down and fluctuating
heavily there was a downward Trend all
the time but you can clearly see periods
of Maintenance periods where my body
weight fluctuated and went up for
whatever reason it wasn't what many
people assume weight loss would look
like it's just a constant drop of weight
as far as calories go my goal throughout
the cut was to keep calories as high as
possible while still losing weight so as
long as I was close to that one pound
per week so around half a kilo of body
weight lost per week on average I was
cool and having those diet breaks where
I brought my calories back up to
maintenance as well as being on such a
slight calorie deficit allowed me to
stay pretty much on the same amount of
calories for the whole cut
I wasn't expecting to be at the sameish
amount of calories for the entirety of
the cut but it worked out and I I was
you as you can see on your screen there
were days where I had 9,000 calories so
there were a couple of those throughout
those few years and a couple of days
where I had zero calories to offset
those 9,000 calorie days but overall I
was roughly around 2,700 to 3,000
calories and losing weight slowly but
sure switching from a low bar Squad to a
FR Squad and obviously other leg
exercises I did manage to hit a 180 so a
four plate front Squad at a similar body
weight to now so towards the end of the
cut which was great I managed to
massively increase my deadlift so as a
heavy guy before AKA AO I wasn't able to
get in a really good position when
deadlifting so I was able to add 30 plus
kilos onto my deadlift one RM as well as
hit multiple reps on on the deadlift and
on other lifts like the barbell row the
overhead press and so on and so forth
keep in mind I was still a heavy guy my
cut ended at around 225 lbs so I was
able to maintain a lot of my strength
just because you may have a lot of
weight to lose you can still do so and
definitely make strength gains
definitely maintain a lot of your
strength gains especially if you do that
very slowly it may be that dieting very
slowly is not sustainable for everyone
and there are people out there that can
diet much more aggressively and get
their cut over and done with versus
doing what I did this is what I looked
like after 2 years of cutting
maintaining cutting maintaining cutting
overall I was very happy with what I
looked like I stopped looking like an
industrial fridge and I looked more like
a mini fridge which was really cool I
was never a fan of the traditional
aesthetic physiques that's not something
that most people like but that's what I
liked big hairy looking like a jack dad
B the daddy bod which is a term that
I've coined and I am trademarking right
here on the spot we'll see you in court
I did reach my initial goal of around of
being at around 100 kilos body weight a
healthy body fight percentage blood work
and so so on and so forth was still as
good as it was before but I could fit
into normal people clothes again I felt
comfortable and most importantly I felt
like I had achieved balance and since
then I haven't done any more YOLO bulks
I've done my fair share of of of bulking
but in a controlled Manner and I am
roughly at the same uh body weight as I
was when I finished the cut I was 106.7
kilos this morning um with a botp and a
dexa scan of around 20 24% body
fat massive increases in strength since
I finished the cut on both the dead lift
the overhead press and every other lift
that I enjoy doing if you're going to
take anything away from this is that no
matter how much you weight you have to
lose it is possible to lose that weight
and keep keep it off use the time during
a cut to build a better relationship
with food yourself your body image as
well as to still enjoy training and
enjoy the journey of lifting your future
self will thank you because you can also
reach the promised land and finally
relax and enjoy life while also lifting
being healthy Being Fit and looking good
both in clothes and naked there good to
supply standard it's our
subjective don't forget to like
subscribe notification Bell send me
money buy me clothes subscribe to my
only
fans coming soon and more
importantly take care of yourselves
[Music]
peace