if you're consistently losing more than
about a pound or two a week you might be
losing muscle in the process
coaching Milo Wolff soon to be doctor by
the way coming at you today with a video
about weight loss and how fast you can
lose weight without getting a muscle and
why in fact losing weight too fast could
be hurting your muscle growth could be
hurting your health and a whole lot of
other things let's touch on muscle loss
first when you're cutting the last thing
you want is to undo a lot of that
progress that you made during the
previous masking phase or previous
bulking phase how fast can you lose
weight without losing muscle this is
where a meta-analysis by Murphy and
colleagues comes in looking at a total
of 59 studies what they found is that a
deficit of more than about 500 calories
per day results in some degree of muscle
loss such that the faster you lose
weight the more muscle you lose now does
this mean that no one should cut faster
than about a 500 calorie deficit per day
for context a 500 calorie deficit per
day would equate to exactly a pound per
week so you would lose on average a
pound per week and that should prevent
muscle loss right well not quite there's
a couple of caveats or limitations to
that figure those findings that I would
like to bring up number one
how big of a deficit you can get away
with without losing muscle very much
depends on how good the conditions for
muscle retention are if you're a
beginner who's never lifted you have
great genetics and your own pedings you
can probably go into a bigger deficit
than 500 calories and actually gain
muscle conversely if you've been trained
for 15 years you're getting bad sleep
you're highly stressed your protein
doesn't England on point being in a 500
calorie deficit might actually result in
some pretty substantial muscle loss in
that situation so the biggest deficit
for you to be in without losing muscle
very much depends on how good your
conditions are for retaining that muscle
the second big caveat is I do think it
depends on your body weight if you weigh
100 pounds losing a pound a week is
actually a relatively fast rate of
weight loss for instance for someone
weighing 100 pounds it's not uncommon to
have maintenance calories around say
1600 1800 calories and so in that
situation losing a pound a week would
actually require you to eat about a
thousand 100 to 1 300 calories this
might actually be success in some cases
and so if you're a very light individual
you might want to go a bit lower than
500 calorie deficit per day conversely
if you weigh two to three hundred pounds
you can probably lose weight a little
bit faster than one pound per week you
can probably go all the way up to almost
two pounds or about two pounds per week
without losing muscle mass the final
caveat I wanted to add is it does
somewhat depend on your body fat
percentage if you're a bodybuilder and
you're currently five percent body fat
losing a pound a week is actually pretty
fast most blood Builders towards the end
of their prep natural ones at least
typically lose about half a pound a week
if that conversely if you're 40 body fat
your body is actually in a state where
it wants to release some of the energy
from the body fat and so you can likely
be in a bigger deficit than 500 calories
per day and still lose fat and retain
muscle just fine so take this all
together and I think that for most
people a daily deficit of about three to
eight hundred calories is good closer to
the bottom of that range for people who
are lighter and who have worse
conditions for retaining muscle and
closer to the top end of that range for
people who are heavier and who are in
better conditions to retain muscle so
one potential issue with cutting too
fast is losing that hard earned muscle
issue number two is hunger the faster
you cut and the lower your calories have
to get as a result the hungrier you will
likely be hunger is one of the main
obstacles to cutting for anyone if hung
gets too high adhering to the diet
becomes very difficult and you
eventually quit the diet which prevents
you from losing any weight anymore so if
you're trying to cut with an 800 calorie
deficit and you're finding it's dead
difficult to stay consistent because of
just how hungry you get consider just
reducing it to about 500 calories
instead and see how you fare issue
number three and this is a huge one as
you may or may not know I am an online
coach I've actually coached hundreds of
people at this point and this is one I
see over and over again and I think a
lack of awareness of this one limitation
of faster Cuts is really a problem the
faster you cut the more difficult it
becomes to remain sociable or you can no
longer partake in social activities in
the same capacity as you once used to
for example let's say that every Friday
with your partner you go out for dinner
and then hit the cinema and get some
snacks Cinema too and maybe you even go
out for drinks afterwards that right
there is going to be several thousands
of calories is that a bad thing well not
necessarily but if you are trying to
lose weight quite fast then that becomes
an issue because you can no longer just
splash a thousand or two thousand
calories on that date without it really
harming your overall weight of weight
loss or meaning that you have to
compensate in your calorie intake the
day before or the day after making you
excessively hungry and feeding into that
issue number two for some people this
absolutely is not an issue if they're
happy to make that sacrifice more power
to them but for a lot of people eating
socially drinking socially or big parts
of their lifestyle and what they enjoy
to do and so sacrificing that is an
inherent compromise that comes with
faster rates of weight loss Issue Number
Four with faster rates of weight loss is
actually an issue I've talked about in a
recent video on relative energy
deficiency you can check that out here
in short if your calories get too low
you may experience negative symptoms
associated with low energy availability
this can range from irritability to
depression to worse performance in the
gym to impacts on a variety of systems
within your body like your bone health
like your menstrual cycle like your
immune system so actually in certain
cases trying to cut too fast can put you
in a much worse position as far as
muscle retention as far as some of your
body's systems go as far as your
training performance goes just a lot of
bad news really with all that mind let
me give you some recommendations on how
fast you should lose weight as a rule of
thumb for most people your daily calorie
deficit should be between 3 and 800
closer to 300 when you're in worse
muscle retention conditions like if
you're highly stressed you've been
training for a while
Etc and closer to 800 when you're
someone with good muscle retention
conditions like if you're new to lifting
if you're on steroids if you have great
genetics if you're training hard that
sort of stuff if you're someone who's
lighter you should probably ER on the
lower side of that range whereas if
you're someone who's heavier say about
two to three hundred pounds you can
probably on the higher side of that
calorie deficit range losing weight too
fast has a wide variety of negative
consequences and it may actually
predispose you a little bit to regaining
that weight afterwards losing weight too
fast can definitely increase your hunger
and reduce your ability to be sociable
within your lifestyle like you usually
would with all that in mind a calorie
deficit of about three to eight hundred
calories will be achievable realistic
and sustainable for most people without
losing muscle that's the video if you
like the video please comment like
subscribe let me know if there's
anything you want to see in the future
I'm definitely looking for ideas so
leave that below and I'll try and get on
peace