hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
i'm sure you've heard it before plenty
of times but doing a higher frequency
program leads to more gains and you know
what sometimes it really does but
sometimes more workouts are not better
and that's weekly tip number 20. let's
take a look
at
situations in which more working out
might not yield better results and also
kind of a bit of a fundamental analysis
of what types of frequencies are better
than others so here's the deal per
muscle
per muscle group so think how often do i
train my chest per week or my biceps or
whatever not how many times do i go in
the gym how often i train a specific
muscle group
in most cases and this is sort of
research derived
two sessions per week versus just one
session so if you train chest once a
week versus two two sessions per week
makes in most people a notable
difference it's better
in most cases training muscle twice a
week is better than training it once a
week even if you adjust the volume so
for example if it's okay chest monday
it's 20 sets of chest
and then no chest to rest a week versus
chest on
monday 10 sets chest on thursday 10 sets
that second one 10 and 10 usually beats
20. for a variety of reasons hypertrophy
made simple you'll look into the
frequency one explains a whole bunch
advanced hypertrophy concepts and tools
videos explain even more but the short
story about it there's tons of nuance
but
generally your muscles only get to grow
for so long and a week is usually too
long their growth cycle actually how
long they growth after you stimulate
them or how long they grow usually only
last about half a week at most maybe a
little shorter
so if you train a muscle twice a week
it's just more opportunity for it to
grow and less versatile
and also
there is this thing called junk volume
that once you get tired enough your
volume like your fifth exercise for
chest that day it's just beating the
shit out of stuff and not really
improving it anymore so you have much
less of that if you split your training
up into two sessions you're more fresh
for all of your sets which is generally
a good thing and also last quick thing
is that after a certain number of sets
usually anything north of 12 to 14 sets
on average per muscle group you're
starting to do more damage than you are
stimulating hypertrophy so over the next
whatever week or half week you actually
start to use more resources to just
recover than you would to adapt so a
mid-range is best maybe like somewhere
between 6 and 12
sets per session per muscle it's
probably ideal so if you're doing like
20 per week as far as set number
splitting it up into halves is probably
a good idea because it gives you great
growth stimulus but it doesn't come at
this huge expense of also trying to
recover you she basically like took your
chest into a fucking car accident 20
heart sets in west central is probably
not ideal now
it still works and for many people will
get very good gains but you'll probably
get at least somewhat notably better
gains if you train twice a week than
once a week for anyone given muscle
group
that's not super high frequency though
plenty of us training twice a week
what about three times a week so that's
training chest maybe one day monday
wednesday friday versus training chest
monday and thursday
can make a small difference has been
detected by studies on average it will
work better on average
but in some cases it might actually be
worse for example training that's
insanely hard and very difficult to
recover from
leg training
if you are pretty large over 190 pounds
relatively lean and relatively strong
10 to 20 body fat
and maybe you can squat three plates
four sets of five to ten or more
high bar deep squat under control
it once you get to that and above a lot
of times you can push so much damage
onto your legs
that training them three times a week
with anything called a normal training
session
is just not going to be a real good
setup for recovery
sometimes you can make it work instead
of doing six sets of quads twice a week
may be able to do four sets of quads
three times a week or something like
that
and sometimes that works great and on
average in the short term it actually
works better but as you get bigger and
stronger
a lot of times your joints and
connective tissues just can't recover
from three heavy leg sessions or
something like that per week and maybe
two is better so
two versus one is something we're like
yeah like if someone tells us like hey
here's my program someone talks to you
at the gym they're like oh you know you
look pretty jacked and you see me what
you're doing here's my program what do
you think if you're training every
muscle one time a week you have full
license to be like i think you'd
probably better training everything
twice a week and almost always are gonna
be right or usually if someone says hey
i train every muscle twice a week should
i go to three times a week it is already
kind of like an even discussion of well
i need to know more it's not clear to me
that three times is always superior than
two and it's not superior in enough
circumstances though still to minority
it's a large minority we kind of want to
ask about it right
number
four per muscle
four sessions per week per muscle
chest monday
wednesday friday saturday maybe
uh versus three versus just monday
wednesday friday is really up in the air
and it depends a whole lot more on
circumstance than in principle
so on principle it's just not clear that
four is going to do better than three on
some of the principles like number of
times to stimulate a muscle it wins on
some of the principles like the idea
that your connective tissue can't
recover as fast as muscle in most cases
and four will just fuck it up and by the
end of the mezzo you'll be trash it
loses
so it's really really up in the air and
it's not just like you know three is
better than two in most cases or sorry
more cases than not but there's a huge
minority of cases in which it doesn't
four versus three
i'm inclined to believe that
unless your program is very well
designed especially if you're big and
strong i would prefer three versus four
because four can get you in a shitload
of trouble with just doing too much i've
been there i did it to myself
so we're starting to notice that you
know people say well high frequency is
better well they're probably right in
recommending two sessions per week
versus one
they might be right and are likely right
but with a great deal of nuance
recommending three versus two sessions
and
four versus three
no longer a principal discussion there's
no good reason to believe that four is
better than three in even most cases it
might be or it might not be it really is
situationally dependent at that point so
if you're a person who's been getting a
certain amount of growth from three
sessions a week and you're thinking oh i
should probably do four more frequencies
better don't think like that think okay
in my particular circumstance for this
particular muscle group that i'm
training
maybe i'll try four times a week
frequency versus three for a whole
mesocycle and i'm going to lift heavy
two of those sessions but really light
two of those sessions use very different
exercises for two than i would for the
other two so there's lots of variation
not a lot of joint connective tissue
stress and then maybe it'll manage and
maybe i'll get better gains but if you
don't make some adjustments you know
four
sessions per muscle group per week is a
lot and it can lead you down a road of
getting super fucked up or it can lead
you down a road of excellent hypertrophy
it's just not clear that it's like
you're just on face value superior
now what about per week so that's per
session
oh sorry that's per muscle muscle per
session so chest twice a week what about
total sessions per week
like total times you go to the gym
here it's a little bit more
straightforward
hitting the gym in on average for the
average person
five times a week is gonna get better
results than four times a week is gonna
get better results than three is gonna
get way better results than two
infinitely better results than one all
right a lot of people are like well you
know hit the gym once a week what do you
think i'm like
you know
after six months you'll probably never
make any gains again
that sucks it's like a really shitty
maintenance plan
now what about six days a week i left
that out well six days of training per
week you show up to the gym six times
is only probably a tiny bit better than
five
and it only is contextualized on if you
can recover
and of course super advanced folks such
as myself and charlie and jared from
team full rom
we train
more than six times per week we train
like oh somewhere between eight and ten
times per week on average of nine times
per week so basically we have three two
a days over the week and then it's a six
day split
that is only for the very advanced it
means your recovery is super super on
point and if you're a beginner
intermediate and you do this double
split thing you might get like razor
thin barely more gains for like
literally double the work it'd be stupid
as fuck so i would recommend you don't
do it
now
okay yeah more sessions is better we got
it even six is marginally better than
five in most cases
however
consistency beats any number of sessions
you planned to do
what the fuck does that mean
that means your plans like reality
doesn't give a shit about your plans if
you make an awesome multi-phasic
sfr and up six day plan and you miss one
to two sessions each week
you're gonna get some results that are
similar to but slightly worse than a
four to five day week plan because you
skip one to two sessions each week
you're actually doing a four to five to
a week plan but
because you're skipping
your workouts could be super logical you
could check all the boxes but because
you're skipping some here and there
they're actually relatively illogical
the program suffers from a lot of chaos
and thus you really if you have a six
day plan and you miss one or two days of
the week on average so your averages you
make it 4.5 days a week to the gym
you're probably only getting the
hypertrophic yield of like
three and a half to four days a week of
planned diligent training that you
actually do consistently
so this is to answer a really big
question a lot of people have
if i
you know go on rp and buy one of the
templates or something oh shameless plug
or whatever i i want a program i write
myself or i buy it from someone else
jeff nippert sells fine programs online
so
if i do that should i go for the six day
program or the five day i kind of want
to do the five day no it's gonna be hard
to hit the six days sometimes on
saturdays i've got other stuff going on
i can't train but i want maximum gains
and is the sixth day really that much
more uh effectual the answer is no the
answer is you train whatever you can
make and if that means you diligently
every time week after week after week do
four days a week and you fucking knock
it out that's better than doing a five
day plan and just fucking up every now
and again and getting off track you
don't want any of that and it's not a
huge enough gain from four to five to
six for you to overvalue that and go up
anyway if you can't be consistent so
consistency is rule one the real way you
make a plan is you first ask yourself
first the question you ask yourself is
how many days can i make it to the gym
per week on average for sure or damn
near for sure godzilla could step on
your house and you fucking won't make it
anywhere damn near for sure how often
can i make it if you're legit true
answer is six and that's what you want
six it is sex is the best
if
you can only make three for sure fucking
do three because you'll be able to
execute the plan you'll be great at it
you're gonna get great hypertrophy and
if your schedule opens up later then you
can do four but if it doesn't what the
fuck is the point you don't want a
chaotic plan to be like yeah i'm on a
six day plan but i only really fucking
go twice a week you know
like
just make yourself a twice a week
planned it'll be good
rest days
last point here or a huge deal uh there
have been a few people over the course
of time who are like team node is off
and they actually make seven day
programs thinking that okay i have seven
days of training seven days per week i'm
not resting my laurels all i want the
best possible outcomes and i'm willing
to do what it takes sweet hey
slap you on the back awesome you're the
shit super motivated the problem is is
that you don't grow in the gym you grow
during rest and fatigue accumulates and
if you have even one rest day per week
it makes a huge difference to how well
week two three four five and six go week
one yeah you can do one week of seven
days and feel great but you can't keep
that up with optimum stimulus you're
just going to get unrecovered so
remember rest days are the shit one to
two of them per week is awesome so five
or six days hard training per week is
the most you should be doing if you're
doing seven days of training per week
all the time
man it's actually quite tragic because
you're doing more work and getting
slightly less benefit or same benefit
but over time you actually get worse
benefit because your joints and
connective tissues start to degrade if
you train that often so it's like you're
doing more work for less benefit that's
fucking stupid i would not recommend it
so tldr supposed to be a quick tip ran a
little longer your motherfuckers like
knowledge so here's some
here's the sort of summary
train for most cases each muscle at
least twice a week
each of the workouts in which you train
the muscle because you can do a lot of
sets every few sets and then you recover
after a short time or a long time
for each workout which you come in to do
for each muscle you want to be well
rested and have high quality workouts a
lot of people ask like hey should i
train sore my answer is why are you
getting so sore that you can't heal on
time for next session you should be
entering your next session for chess
being like oh man my chest feels fucking
great and someone could be like hey when
did it heal and it wasn't so anymore
like yesterday i felt barely anything
this morning i woke up i feel like
fucking superman that's gonna be a good
fucking session if you can heal
for monday and for wednesday and for
friday three days a week for chest is
awesome
but if you train on monday chest
wednesday you train sore and sort of not
recover and your volumes and intensities
are down because you're clearly still
fucked up and then friday have another
excellent workout but then on monday
you're still sore that's not a good idea
i would recommend that you train monday
and thursday because muscles take some
time to recover in your case either
you're doing too much volume per time or
you are just doing too much frequency
one of those has to change because you
want to be in a place a good program
when it's time to train whatever muscle
it's time to train next you're recovered
and ready to fucking hit it hard and
then harder and then harder the last
time
i had to i had to my inner parrot said
do a coach greg impression so
high quality workouts which are arrested
is the most important thing in a program
so long as you're going twice a week
at least in most cases and after you say
okay i'm training each muscle group
twice a week and i'm going hard every
time and i'm recovered for each muscle
every time there's not really a
universal compelling reason to do more
this is exactly what i mean by this
if you're doing twice a week training in
the gym and you're getting amazing
results and you're healing on time every
time and you're fucking great workouts
because you're super recovered and
someone says you train chest what twice
a week you're like yeah like you drive
four times a week you'll get better
gains it is by no means clear that's the
case taking all of the sport science
literature that's relevant and all the
context from actual people training into
the equation it's not clear at all and
if you're having awesome workouts twice
a week for a muscle group and you're
having great gains don't fucking change
your rain need to change anything you
can just don't expect this giant rainbow
to bring you a pot of gold because that
may not happen and in fact
sometimes less is better
so experiment be honest with yourself
detach the idea in your head that more
is better better is better getting hard
sessions
three to ten sets per session done with
excellent technique a high degree of
stimulus a low degree of fatigue recover
between each one of those sessions and
then find out how many times a week you
can make that work there's a lot of
right answers but there's a lot of wrong
answers too don't train when you're too
sore ideally not at all when you come in
hit it hard and if your muscles are
ready to hit it hard again and they're
healed but you're not training them yet
you should have a higher frequency so
basically your chest gets sore it heals
as soon as the day after it's healed hit
it again if you wait a day or two or
three that's lost opportunity to just
make growth which is the big detraction
from one session per week like you're
not your chest doesn't get sore for a
whole week you train super hot on monday
by thursday it's healed fucking train it
again thursday right don't wait so align
your stimulus to your recovery and if
that is the case everything else is just
details experiment with them to see what
works best for you sometimes you can
even cycle volume we'll get to that
later videos but fundamentally don't
think oh i should do more quality
the stimulus roughly in proportion to
how much and when you can recover
that covers 90 something percent of your
bases and you're if you're not getting
great results from that there's nothing
that will give you great results and if
you're getting great results from that
stick to it really think
honestly calmly
not with wide crazy eyes if i'm gonna
double my gains by going four days a
week for chests instead of two that's
just not gonna happen you may get a
marginal improvement you may get a
marginal decrement be smart do the right
thing
next time it'll be a quicker tip see you
then