how much extra muscle would you build if
you took creatine every day for a year
straight one extra pound two extra
pounds 10 extra pounds well the best
science seems to say that you've
probably gained something around two to
three extra pounds or one to one point
five extra kilos of lean mass even
though some of that will be water weight
any water you hold from creatine will be
inside the muscle where you want it so
that's not a bad thing creatine can also
help you build muscle about one-third
faster so if it would have taken you
five months to add five pounds of muscle
before creatine could help you do it in
three and a half months instead now
there are two ways you can take it you
can do a one week loading phase of 20
grams per day followed by a maintenance
phase of 5 grams per day or you can just
go straight to maintenance skipping the
loading phase loading will saturate your
muscles faster but both will get you to
the same place over the long term simple
creatine monohydrate is the most
effective form and it doesn't matter
when you take it although a few Studies
have suggested that post-workout timing
may have a slight Edge you don't need to
cycle off creatine and there's Decades
of research showing no adverse effects
around one in four will be
non-responders but for everyone else
enjoy the extra gains