did you punch a mother's face and he
just head exploded at you I'm pretty
sure if you get that much blood on you
somebody lost the match at that point
holy
[Music]
shit hey folks Dr Mike here I'm the
creator of the RP hypertrophy app and
I'm a professor of exercise and sports
science at Leman College in the Bronx in
New York City I'll bear the rest of
where I'm from Jake Paul is a person on
the internet that I know almost nothing
about and uh Scot the video guy was like
hey do you want to review his training
and I said yes so let's find out where
that goes all right ladies and gentlemen
welcome to fight night circuit I heard
he was very good at fighting this is
curious I do have uh a bit of an
expertise in combat sport I'm a brown
belt in Brazilian jiu-jitsu I've
competed a bunch I've been paid to fight
at least once so technically that makes
me Pro but only technically I'm not that
good at Jiu-Jitsu but I've been beat up
a lot and I've studied quite a bit about
how to organize combat sport training uh
specifically weight training for sport
pration to be the best combat sport
athlete possible uh let's see what I I
first of all I love his gloves I can't
even see his hands cuz it's so
camouflaged the goal of today's workout
is to simulate the fight we're going to
have crowd noises playe the air horns
will be BL it is going to be loud as
shit in here and we have the craziest
circuit I can't tell if this is just for
clicks or if they really think this is
effective I don't really have a problem
with simulating the environment I think
the best time to simulate that would be
when you're actually in the Ring
sparring because that's the maximum
sport specificity you're in the ring
you're sparring in training and if you
have crowd noises and air horns like
that's actually kind of smart to do so I
like that if they're going to be doing
some kind of like weight training or Pio
circuit the specificity is already so
off that incrementally increasing
specificity by a small margin by doing
crowd noises and air horns it doesn't
seem to fit all that well but his coach
looks like he knows things so let's find
out what he has to say we're going to be
tapping into the full body I'm saying
I've tapped a few full bodies
before and Bows you know what I'm saying
just kidding I've seen it on the
television and I was like GE whiz those
people look like they're having a lot of
fun with each other I hope they're both
wearing condoms isn't that how it works
we're going to be hitting upper body
lower body Speed and Agility I like how
you gave us a list of what is included
in whole body he's like for those idiots
if you don't know what that means
there's an upper body and a lower body
at least I think there may be more parts
of the body that I'm missing even some
punches going to be in there some
punches I love that they're just getting
in there like rappers in front of a
camera style like cutting each other off
like no no what my man is trying to say
here is that we're getting agility he's
like yes and punches yes and what else
we got it all baby
it's basically 30 minutes of hell to
simulate what the fight is going to be
like August 6 coming up as you guys know
I'm taking aim Rockman Jr hasim Rahman
Jr I don't know anything about boxing I
mean literally almost nothing especially
from a fan perspective of who's good but
if your name sounds like you're a black
Muslim you're going to be beating my ass
that's the way I think about that shit
you don't ever beat a black Muslim in a
fight that's nonsense uh Scott the video
guy can we look up if Jake Paul indeed
won that fight or lost it cancel due to
discrepancies fight never happened
rematch or no somebody didn't make
weight that sucks you train for that
long and then this is the fight night
circuit let's get crazy let's go if he
was my coach You' be like hey like I
like the air horn but I don't like the
air horn stop fucking blowing in my face
so we're going to start off technical
with some boxing throwing out some Jabs
for come right here battle ropes 30
seconds next station first climb in 30
seconds we just tapping the whole body
come right here 10 hand cleans by the
time that you get through three High
cardio demand exercises the Hang cleans
are going to be so not Technical and so
not conducive to training repeat power
output that is curious to put them there
it's something that can work but is
unlikely to work if the person maintains
excellent technique and continues to
provide a lot of hip drive through that
movement it can work we'll see if it
does in a second 10 pull-ups fast and
strong grabbing a hammer Tire flips all
the way down Tire flips down there
coming back the whole time they're going
to be throwing water in my face you
never know what's going to be coming at
you in the fight you never know what's
going to be coming at you in a fight I
mean I I I don't think the fight
promoter is allowed to have a Super
Soaker that he shoots at people you can
be pretty sure in a fight that you don't
get water in your face now the guy could
sweat in your face he could sweat in
your own face it's interesting I would
say this is like flashy bullshit for the
sake of flashy bullshit you can get your
eye poke you can get blood in your eye
like my last fight I poke blood in your
eye maybe you just go for full
specificity and have that I'm kidding so
the whole time they're going to be
throwing water in my face after the tire
flip we coming right in here we got some
nice good squats squats after tire flips
I'd like to see that Jesus soon as he
finishes up with that coach BJ is going
to bring him right here coach BJ no
offense all of you guys can beat my ass
BJ's a funny name did you guys know why
I don't know just feels nice to say BJ
I've heard people have BJs I don't know
what that means but I heard they're fun
somebody loving you down there I'll cut
myself off we're going to do some shots
to the body tap the body okay all right
I like it a little body work one minute
body punching I'm coming for your body
fight night hassim you little bitch you
better make weight JK one of us didn't
Scott do we know who didn't make weight
the other dude yo hassim leg just saw
this video and he was like man fuck that
this guy's going to me up the way he's
getting through this obstacle course I
ain't about that life Mike they agreed
to fight at 200 and he was 215 when he
agreed and he was like 21548 214 48
hours out like you didn't even try my
man making way dude I'm not I love the H
approach man that's that real life you
talk that shit you sign a contract and
you just don't fing do dick I love it
that's real shit talking I made you prep
for a fight pussy and I didn't even miss
show up ready for the shit how's that
for mic drop come off the body punches
right here to some reverse incline
push-ups it's nice these are all by
themselves quite good movements the
arrangement of so many of them in a row
dilutes the purpose of of the training
into a question mark knock those out hop
on the ladder real speed coming down
down and back a couple times and they
got it all they were like all right
every single exercise in the gym you're
going to do that shit he's like are you
serious yep every single one line them
up this is real real real shit let push
and pool all the way down all the way
back soon as we come back off those sled
pools hopping right here on the Versa
climber yo hold up Versa climber again
the assault bike God damn it oh he got
it wrong it's the assault bike uh
technically speaking a very similar move
named everything in the damn gym today
cuz that's how crazy you're going he
literally said what I just made a joke
about yeah folks proper training doesn't
mean doing everything proper training
means figure out what you have to do
what your highest return on investment
things are and then organize them in a
way like building blocks so they make
the most sense to do like if you're
taking a girl out to a restaurant to eat
which I don't know anything about I've
never been out with a girl or to a
restaurant or in public but in any case
you know you don't have to take the
bitch to Italian Chinese you feel me
American Japanese food and then back to
French cuisine you got to take her to a
one nice place and that usually seals
the deal get that bitch a fuck bucket of
chicken from KFC I said you're in and
you take her home You' be like what you
think about that bucket of chicken and
she's like I love you you're like I know
let me call my friend BJ he's not
picking up trying to fit trying to fit
it so I imagine these things go correct
me in the comments if I'm wrong about
how dates work if you guys like that we
have more of the Extended Cut in Our
member section so give that a sign up
and maybe you'll like things that happen
there finishing up with some abs some
reaction and some arm fighting so yeah
there you go that's one round we got
three rounds very curious that's a lot
of stuff ladies and Gentlemen
let's oh my god dude yo his training
Partners be like dude this sucks
everyone's yelling the rumble sound the
air horn is this a Jamaican dance hall
are we in a boxing gym what the hell is
going on
here he can
punch he would my ass up I bet shut the
up talking all this shit you's gonna
casat me outside be like I heard you a
big funny man on YouTube making fun of
my shit I be like M Mr Jake Paul if
there is a chance for me not getting
beat up by you I'll do anything it takes
I heard you had a friend named BJ I'm
that friend now let me see
it I'm thorough and well studied and
eager
and Technical and I do it with love and
of real interest in the fact that you
have a good time but you know what
secretly I'm having a good time
too hit me up we don't even have to
[Music]
[Applause]
beef battle ropes battle ropes is very
good conditioning for boxing and is a
good Movement by itself for this purpose
but in the context of everything else it
kind of loses some of its value his
training partner is really looking at
that cell phone timer like I I know how
numbers work but I just don't want the
shit to sneak up on me I better say
right away when it's time to switch
dedication Versa
climber okay honestly bro like I don't
mean to talk that shit but it's my job
so all fun of jokes folks all fun and
jokes he's not really cranking on that
thing like you don't do a circuit like
this to survive the shit you do it to
excel at it you got to push yourself and
I'm not saying he's not pushing himself
but I'm saying he might not be pushing
himself look at that arm speed he's kind
of coasting along like uh go faster but
maybe I just don't know and that's on
purpose the way I see this as a sports
scientist is all this stuff is time not
spent actually training boxing technique
boxing conditioning boxing tactics
boxing strategy you could do all the
shit in the ring and if you really want
an extra crazy conditioning hit just put
on a weight vest and then go in the ring
now you're slow and heavy and you gas
faster and you still got to throw those
hands and keep that defense up move
around position yourself against a
rotation of fresh guys you just can't
really beat training like that hand
clean time now folks the handang clean
is an exercise that is uh supposed to
develop your ability to Triple extend
extending at your ankle your knee and
your hip it's the jumping motion with
weight in your hands and the proper way
to do it is to hinge and do a double
knee Bend so you dip your hips once the
bar clears the knees under the bar and
it into the air literally poof you pop
your hips up into the bar that's the
purpose of the handang clean doing the
hand clean for multiple reps when you're
already if you can do that technique
works on maximizing your endurance
ability to do what's called repeat power
high power output 1 2 3 four 5 6 ETC
number of times it's a great exercise
and it's a totally great way to use it
that if you do not triple extend with it
it becomes kind of like a weird back and
shoulder exercise that does just not a
whole lot more than Tire you out so
let's find out how we're doing
[Applause]
[Music]
it yeah you know
C+
pull-ups okay partial pull-ups yeah most
the benefits of pull-ups is in that
bottom half bottom third big lat stretch
he's not doing that because he can't do
as many pull-ups as he'd have to in
order to be able to do that I understand
the technique here is not
great zero zero zero not terrible but
not great all right hammer or
Tire
yeah okay so I'll just cut to the chase
this is a great exercise to develop
power in your anterior chain which
includes your hip flexors your
abdominals and it basically allows you
to curl your body powerfully and it's a
great exercise kind of if and only if
you do it with Force intent to move has
to be high you're going to try to slam
that hammer through that tire he's just
kind of surviving is this the best
alternate use of his time It prepares
ing for a boxing match is there anything
you could be doing with this 30 minutes
and with the amount of fatigue that he
has allotted to this which is a lot is
there a better way to train for fighting
and the answer is it's either high power
High Force lifting a bit of basic
conditioning work and almost the rest of
it needs to come from a variety of
boxing Drilling and sparring athletes
train in ways very similar to how they
play their sport the physical body is
cool to have in great shape but you got
to remember that you're not there the
event isn't fucking hitting the shit
with a hammer and there's no Versa
climbers in the ring there's just one
dude into the face you don't like and
you got to train much of your training
as much as possible hitting people in
the face or replicas of people pads uh
Shadow Boxing uh heavy bag so on and so
[Music]
forth Tire flips again another oh that's
a lot of water did did you punch a
mother's face and he just head exploded
at you I'm pretty sure if you get that
much blood on you somebody lost the
match at that point holy shit I mean
somebody at this point should shock him
in the testicles that's unexpected and
it'll upset youo I love the spirit of
the thing but there must be better ways
to train for the sport of boxing they
don't get as many YouTube clicks they
sure win more
fights are I love the like lowkey hip
hop in the background like hey man I'm
just driving around in my Impala getting
water sprayed in my
[Music]
face time to do squats I guess if I
remember correctly yep 135 and the squat
the music still
playing oh
God yeah some half
squat training at this point mostly the
glutes and lower
back it's just this is just hard stuff
things to make it hard now it' be a lot
harder if he dunked it and actually went
full range of motion for a boxer that's
not very important to do but if you want
bigger stronger more powerful legs doing
so four Ranger motion squatting is
probably uh ideal it would also burn his
legs out more challenging him in the
circuit more but I don't want to get too
critical in technique cuz sort of beyond
that when the grand scheme is such a
random disaster the specifics are almost
don't matter what I'm trying to say is
there are intelligent contexts in which
partial Ranger motion lifting is
excellent for
boxing this is not one of
them there is no avoiding heart training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and small
RP hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
results all right work in the body now
like he's punching not so hard this
looks a lot like what my wife and I do
every Saturday morning but uh it's much
more psychological for us all right
decline push-ups okay so like I don't
know what to say about this halfway
down z z zero he could easily look
forward and then touch his chest to the
ground he's just kind of bouncing around
these are terrible push-ups limited
application to boxing if you wanted a
better transfer of training you would
have a closer grip and keep your elbows
in a little bit because that's how you
throw punches you typically don't punch
from out here so unless you're trying to
H hery chest on purpose which I don't
think any of this is really on purpose
at this
point oh a ladder
drill yeah yeah we've done some in
looking into the ladder and it turns out
that like if you do the ladder drill
often you're testing who's already the
most athletic and has the best footwork
and then you're letting those people
just become better at the ladder as a
skill and of itself it's not a terrible
training modality it's good for basic
development like when you're training
children to move
athletically um but the best way to do
footwork and boxing is to do boxing
specific footwork which this is not oh
that's right sled
pushes yep I don't really know how sled
pushing transfers a ton to boxing it's
probably okay for repeat power
development but you got to move a little
faster than that to get that effect it's
just kind of ways of making someone work
more might as well get a job at Walmart
stacking boxes at this point just stack
these boxes really fast great I'm in
boxing shape all right we're on the bike
he's either insanely exhausted or he's
not trying so hard maybe he's working on
pacing himself but again pacing is such
a thing it's a thing you want to do in
the boxing training specifically that's
where pacing helps you the most in
physical training like this generally
you don't want pacing you want to go
more or less all out so you can push
your systems
further all right working on some
ducking that's cool again a fine
Movement by
itself that's cool I love the tennis
ball
stuff so some hand reaction stuff again
this is a thing you would benefit from
doing fresh and as a warm-up for um a
technical boxing session now when you're
doing a tired I'm not so sure it makes
you better at it you just kind of suck
at it because you're
tired again this is also a allowing him
to recover substantially so it's um not
improve improving the quality of the
conditioning
work oh we got some grappling work here
looking for the
underhook that's
[Music]
cool
dope yeah again the these folks know how
to train hard the direction of the
training should be at least a little bit
more
specific yeah one at a time this is a
giant waste of time I have no idea what
that exercise is training I've never
seen anyone do a face pull to the top of
their
head what the is
that folks when you're training for
sport get you a sport scientist and a
sport coach to help organize your
training in such a way that makes the
most possible sense so that when you're
training for boxing you do as much
boxing as possible to get you the most
technique the most tactics and you
minimize the amount of training you do
for basic cardio work and you minimize
the amount of training you do for
strength and power work down to the very
core Essentials that pay the biggest
dividends so you can get better Baseline
of endurance with a little bit of
running you get a much better Baseline
of strength and power with a little bit
of lifting weights in the gym very
simple movements and you spend the vast
majority of your time in the ring
working with pads or working with bags
or working with a coach to do some
Shadow Boxing that's where you can drive
both your Technical and tactical
abilities and a whole shitload of your
endurance exactly specific spe ific of
the sport of boxing or whatever sport is
you're doing athletes should train
mostly the sport that they're playing in
very similar ways to how they play it
derivatives and combination drills and
tactical drills and actual sparring and
on top of that they can do a little bit
of strength power training and a little
bit of Baseline endurance training I
wouldn't like mixing all those together
spending too much time ironically coming
from me a meathead bodybuilder too much
time in the gym not enough time in the
boxing ring and uh if you want to be
better boxing getting in that ring as
much as possible to the extent your body
can allow it is a really really good
idea so I don't
know seven out of 10 do we still rate
these things if I know I've been Dr Mike
see you next time all right folks if you
enjoyed that video YouTube thinks that
you like this video right over here and
if you click on it then I become
incrementally more wealthy and I buy
more Lamborghinis and and my Butlers the
the 78 Butlers that I have now they're
happier too isn't that
nice
[Music]