[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike isn't all here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video number seven if you
want more details the hypertrophy guide
central hub on our website and other
longer form YouTube videos on this very
channel here's the deal
should you train to failure and really
how hard should each set be when you do
train for hypertrophy first what does
the research say well here's good news
bad news there's no clear benefit of
going any harder per set at least every
time then three reps shy failure what we
call three reps and reserve three RI are
no benefit of going with zero re our vs.
3 are in pretty much the average of the
studies now in addition to that going
all the way to absolute failure it can
cause tons of fatigue and prevent you
from stringing together awesome
back-to-back workouts because each
workout becomes so fatiguing and mess up
the workout afterwards however you don't
want to really think you're training
three reps in reserve but you're really
just lying to yourself
you've never been to true failure you
could be seven or eight reps in reserve
the research shows that people are
really bad at estimating and sometimes
really cut themselves too much slack so
there's actually a really good approach
that we can use between these two here's
the best approach you start your first
week of training with certain weight
certain reps certain sets you write all
that down and you start at roughly three
reps and reserve so you're holding
yourself back a little bit then pretty
much every week every workout after that
you increase the weight a little bit
keeping the reps the same or you
increase the reps keeping the weight the
same or some combination of both
essentially you're making the workout
just a little bit more challenging every
single time at some point either you get
infinitely strong forever that would
really be ideal or you're gonna hit
failure sooner or later when you can hit
failure and you can't match your
performances and your performance starts
to decay because of the crazy - teague
then you back away probably take a deal
ode and then you go back for your next
the run next month next measure cycle of
training you start again at roughly
three reps in reserve now a little
stronger and you go up and up and up
from there so that's a really simple
way to make sure you're getting close to
failure and approaching it but not
training a failure all the time and
getting super super high fatigue now
there's something to say about training
age and training to failure when you're
a beginner your technique establishment
is number one and good news
you get beginner gains you don't have to
train that hard you have to train in a
very good regimented inherent manner to
make sure your technique establishment
is good and you get really really strong
you could do that by training but that's
starting at four or five reps and
reserve like really pretty easy and
going all the way up to roughly two reps
in reserve to rep high failure and then
recycling that whole process in just
using more weight okay more isn't needed
for best results and this gives you a
really really great technique because if
you go super close to failure as a
beginner your technique tends to break
down and you're really learning really
crappy technique as an intermediate
roughly two to seven years into training
beginner was like zero to two years of
training you want to start at around
three reps in reserve and go to between
zero and one rapid repetition and
reserve every single mesocycle every
single time you train with the same
exercises and rep ranges so you start at
roughly three you go to zero one zero
reps in reserve or true failure and
exercises that won't fall on you and one
rep and the tank for exercises that will
so if you're doing squats or overhead
presses don't go all the way to failure
because you could die but if you're
doing cable curls or some kind of row
you can go all the way to failure no
problem for the advanced there's some
decent reason to believe that even going
a little bit beyond failure might be
helpful and that the minimum difficulty
of training has to be a little higher so
our recommendation here RP is if you're
advanced maybe you want to start around
two reps in reserve and then slowly
decrease so two reps in reserve and week
one in week to maybe one rep and reserve
zero to one reps in reserve even a
little further in week three and then
week four right before you D load you
might want to do some beyond failure
training have a partner do rep assisted
stuff with you some cluster sets where
you go to failure multiple times really
challenge the body maybe that's the only
thing to grows you at that point because
you're advanced but for everyone else
it's much easier folks thanks for tuning
in see you next time
you