deadlift checklist if you take all five
you have a perfect deadlift first set
your stance start with your shins about
1 in from the barbell and your feet at
hip width for a Sumo deadlift you'll
take a wider stance but I'll cover that
separately the bar should cross the
middle of your foot Point your toes
slightly out second grab the bar set
your hips back with nearly straight
knees don't make the common mistake of
squatting down a deadlift isn't a squat
grip the bar with your hands just
outside your shins and over undergrip
hook grip or strapped grip will keep the
bar from slipping let your shins make
contact with the bar they should be
pointed straight up third pull the slack
out instead of ripping the bar pull
tension into the bar gradually fourth
pull lift your chest up while thrusting
your hips forward keep the bar in
contact with your legs Fifth Lock Out
stand up straight and lift your chest up
don't shrug or squeeze your back at the
top lower the weight by setting your
hips back and letting your knees Bend
keep the bar in tight so that it lands
back over the middle of your foot now
you have my