the dumbbell fly is the single most
slept on exercise for chest growth and
here's why most chest exercises miss out
on getting a big stretch when your
barbell pressing when you're dumbbell
pressing you don't get a full stretch on
your chest because the dumbbells or
barbell reach your chest before you get
it fully stretched in contrast in a
dumbbell fly you can both retract the
scapula further lengthening the lower
chest but also get a full range of
motion and get your arms out all the way
without any restriction on your stretch
why am I focusing on a stretch well
that's because some research suggests
that focusing on the lengthen position
through for example a l partial may
actually cause more muscle growth
compared to a 4ange motion so the common
criticism that a dumbo fly doesn't get
you to have a peak contraction for your
chest may actually just be its strength
in promoting more muscle growth indeed
the exercise is functionally a lengthen
partial you don't have much tension at
the very top of the rep and the tension
increases as you lengthen the PCS even
more importantly the Dumba fly hits both
the upper and lower chest since both
contribute towards bringing your arms
towards the midline of your body so for
overall chest growth try the Dumba fly
it may just be the single best chest
exercise according to the science