[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
pure is a shin here with Joey sat Mary
of that strength check him out on
YouTube today he will be surviving one
of our back and biceps sample workouts
this is the best he's gonna look this
entire time so the workout is going to
be flexion rows which are super
interesting exercise we're gonna show
you how to do those he's gonna do them
then a pulldown drop set then cable
curls and then a cable curl drop set
back check biceps check this workout is
called Gianni who the hell is that it's
a very famous Arabic mathematicians and
one of the inventors of algebra we
couldn't do these workouts web named him
after nerd shit folks let's watch Joey
almost die
[Music]
the first exercise today is going to be
flexion rows well show you in a bit how
this works it's basically a barbell row
but with added emphasis on the erector
muscles and a very very strict technique
we're gonna do five sets of those rows
it's gonna be fucking brutal remember if
you're just starting this workout out
for yourself do a few less sets we're
gonna be going peak week workout five
sets all the way to failure let's warm
up show the technique and get to it arch
poun stand down very good and arch and
pause and down very good stay a little
lower at the top yes perfect and then
chest up and control alright folks so
we're doing five sets of flexion rows if
the rep range is gonna be between ten
and twenty reps per set on first set and
then all the other sets it's just gonna
be whatever as far as when failure is as
far as fatigue kicking in so probably
you want in your own training for this
to start out around fifteen reps maybe a
little north of fifteen and then see
where you go with fatigue here's the
deal
joey is using one hundred and five
pounds actually I take that back
this is a female bar this is like 90
pounds or something like that it's a
very very low weight he is a
professional strongman my back is as you
folks might have seen an Instagram posts
not average-sized I use a hundred and
ten pounds or something like that just
because I've been doing these longer
you're not gonna use a hundred and fifty
hundred and eighty pounds on this it's a
super light weight exercise you're gonna
focus on technique and you're gonna find
out that you need to use barely any
weight to fly the shit out of your back
let's do it not enough arch more arch
and down slow good
and arch keep your hips high so you can
stretch at the bottom stretch the
shoulders excellent arch the key on
these flexion rows is to make sure that
you move from a position of flexion into
a position of extension pause and hold
at the top if you're no longer if at the
top of these things you're just here
you're not here when you still touch
that's not credit that's not a real rep
so in these flexion rows you start out
with a rounded back arch completely
notice my hips aren't moving just my
spine is articulating that's it and you
could say but that's not enough weight
for the lats the purpose of this is to
train the lats a little bit and a lot of
the other back musculature but most of
the spinal erectors the lats are not the
only part of the back will train the
lats in the next exercise as you guys
will see down low via GARCH arch and
hold stay lower I want an arch but stay
lower yes there you go March very good
big arch go arch arch arch arch and down
and one more hold for two seconds at the
top arch hold and slow stretch pressing
very good feel that in the rector's very
good perfect
we're done with rose the back super
pumped up now it's time for pull downs
but here's the kicker
it's a drop set which means we start
with a weight we can do
Oh for roughly a set of 15 reps and then
every time we rest for like maybe five
or six seconds we change the way down to
a lower weight and we're gonna do that a
total of six times holy crap six total
sets of drop sets it's gonna blow the
lats through the roof if you don't have
a set of versa grips or at least straps
don't try this at home because your grip
is gonna limit you before your lats do
in most cases get yourself some
versatile grips or get some straps and
do this the right way we're gonna warm
up first and then probably only need one
set to warm up because the backs already
warm from the rose then we're gonna get
kicking and try touching your chest
every time how do you know when you've
failed on pull downs first of all always
trick technique if you have to cheat
you've already failed number two do you
have to touch your chest every time most
people can most people are flexible
enough but in Joey's case he's fucking
enormous so he might be so muscle-bound
that he can't actually touch his chest
that's okay he can always go to a
standardized depth a standardized range
of motion for him it's gonna be below
his chin if he gets the bar below his
chin that's a success for up as soon as
he's so tired that he can't do that
without cheating the set is over so for
you I would recommend touch every time
if you can't touch with good technique
the set is over if you can't touch for
even a single rep to your chest then I
would say pick something standard like
just under your chin go from there 16
good technique
17 pull stretch 18 low 19 last one
20 beautiful very good relax for just a
second so we started at 160 we're gonna
take a five-second break 150 then 140 so
on and so forth hit it
four come on now five time to dig six
two more seven low eight excellent very
good six
no cheating seven give me one more last
one go yes
perfect three more sets left doing great
five full seconds read it up see your
lats a little bit there good stuff
six pulled out hard seven technique
eight good very good
[Music]
second-to-last take a little breather
five lower six two more seven
no cheating eight awesome awesome
awesome last one folks for this one
we're gonna do a little trick and we're
gonna drop it a little bit lower two
rungs lower than planned just for that
extra high rep extra burn mess them up
really good and we're gonna rest just a
little longer before the set in about
twenty to thirty seconds really get his
energy back up and make sure the muscle
is a limiting factor nine ten stretch
but don't let go
three go to eleven all the way down
twelve down thirteen stretch to go
fourteen fifteen stretch to go sixteen
all the way down 17 more go 18 let's get
it 19 last one
20 awesome that's good very good very
good very good we're done with back time
for biceps we got two biceps exercises
it's really the same exercise just two
different approaches to different rep
ranges the first one is going to be
cable curls but for strict sets of 5 to
10 reps per set try gonna start closer
to them about fatigue take us to five
that's gonna be four sets after that we
have six drop sets same exercise but we
start with a lighter weight 10 to 20
reps on a first set let fatigue take
over about 5 to 10 second breaks between
mini sets we're gonna crush it
Joey's biceps are either gonna explode
off of his body rendering him useless
for the rest of his life or he's gonna
grow we'll see which one it is
stay tuned to
[Music]
three four five slower up six one last
one
go go go go go go go slow you know huh
that's it
[Music]
Joey's done doing his four sets of
straight set curls five to ten rep range
really tough he was using 150 pounds for
that now that we're into the drop sets
different rep range ten to 20-minute
first set and ease fatigue we're
starting at a hundred pounds and we're
going down from there very very brief
rests let's get into it folks again if
you're starting doing this do not do six
drop sets for your biceps the first time
do two or three and then every week you
might be able to go up a set here up a
set there and see how you do 14 strict
only 15 keep going we want more out of
this we're not here to not work good two
more up one strict and last one up yes
slow that rack
good job breathe range of motion five
two more six come on
yes slow very good
six come on seven more bonus round
bonus round go eight one last one
make it good pop up good for set four
five two more two more come on man you
showed up to work good one more up slow
good stuff
two more sets you're almost there these
are gonna get real light grab it right
now go up rest for a second
don't laugh don't rack - and you're done
go ass let's go one more and up and slow
good job
start right now ten must be done strict
go go go go
no delay elbows in quality one two three
for
five awesome six big stretch seven eight
nine all the way up ten we're going to
true failure more MORE
three go one two all the way up three
rest no you're going nowhere
three go right now one slow I'll fast
too slow
I'll fast three keep going no rest go go
go
yes again strict again strict
let's go again strict come on let's go
one more go go go go yep and last one go
pop good technique pull-up and slow
awesome alright now we get to do the
Arnold thing ready Raylan you son of a
bitch folks if Joey dies later from
rhabdomyolysis I had nothing to do with
it anyway that's the workout it's really
hard if you want to try this workout
check out the description take the all
the way to failure sets make them two or
three reps in reserve to start take the
number of sets cut it by half or two
thirds or something so if it's like six
sets start with three or four and then
over the weeks add a little weight
reduce the proximity to failure get
close to failure and add a few sets as
you're able to recover and adapt right
we want to hold mesocycle of this kind
of stuff maybe even several not all at
once
so this workout as a peak week we want
you to start a little lower and work
your way up
thanks for tuning in Joey thanks for
joining us good luck using your arms see
you guys next time
[Music]
you