thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
all right what is going on everyone I
want to welcome you all to a new episode
of myth-busting where every Monday we're
gonna take a look at some common fitness
or nutrition idea look at where that
idea came from and then figure out
whether it's true or false based on the
most recent scientific evidence so this
week we're gonna be looking at the idea
that cryotherapy improves recovery from
training and just to be clear we're
gonna be using cryotherapy in its
etymological context which derives from
the Greek cryo meaning cold and therapy
a' meaning to cure so basically any form
of therapy that involves cold treatment
and just to differentiate here modern
whole body cryotherapy is when you just
sit in a really cold room set at
negative 100 to about negative 200
degrees celsius for 3 or 4 minutes and a
related form of cryotherapy is cold
water immersion therapy which is when
you just sit in a cold water bath for 10
minutes or so um so these are both
technically cryo therapies however when
people use the term
cryotherapy they're usually referring to
whole body cryotherapy where you'll sit
in a chamber or some cold room but
regardless we're gonna cover both of
these so first where did the idea that
these cryotherapy treatments that can
improve recovery come from well it
probably dates back to at least 2500 BC
when ancient Egyptians would use cold
compression treatments for wounds and
inflamed injuries there's also record of
Napoleon's surgeon using extreme cold as
an anesthetic in the late 1700s and
through the 19th and 20th centuries cold
treatments remained popular and medical
practice with applications and
treatments of headaches neuralgia and
specific cancers however it wasn't until
2002 that ice baths became all the hype
and sport circles when English
long-distance runner Paula Radcliffe
attributed her gold medal in the 2002
European Championships to ice treatment
and she claimed that it's absolute agony
and I dread it but it allows my body to
recover so much more quickly and then
the mainstream popularity of the more
modern whole body cryotherapy has even
more recent than that although the first
cryotherapy chamber was built in Japan
in the late 1970s it's only been widely
available in the United States for the
last decade or so and since then it's
really just blown up in mainstream
fitness circles but if
the real question is is all of that hype
justified and I think in order to answer
that question we need to have a look at
what the scientific evidence has to say
now I actually covered this study in
another video but very quickly a 2016
study comparing the recovery effects of
whole body cryotherapy and cold water
immersion therapy in ten subjects after
performing five sets of 15 reps on the
leg curl found that at 0 24 48 and 72
hours after training cold water
immersion was better at improving
recovery than whole body cryotherapy and
that was measured by a muscle soreness
counter movement jump height and
creatine kinase levels which is a marker
for muscle damage
and while whole body cryotherapy is a
newer methodology all of the research
that we currently have comparing it to
cold water immersion basically shows it
to be worse including a 2013
meta-analysis comparing the two so cold
water immersion definitely seems to be
better than whole body cryotherapy but
for all that is it actually worth doing
still so I'd like to first look at its
effect on muscle soreness and a very
comprehensive 2015 systematic review and
meta-analysis looking at 36 articles
found that overall cooling treatments
did significantly lower the symptoms of
delayed onset muscle soreness at the 24
hour mark compared to the control
condition which basically just involves
sitting or standing in a room set at a
comfortable temperature and this
soreness reduction continued for up to
96 hours and all the studies included
that looked at that
however muscle soreness may not be the
best gauge of recovery especially given
how subjective its measurement is and
the authors noted that cooling didn't
affect objective recovery variables such
as lactate levels creatine kinase levels
or interleukin 6 levels and I think
there are also a number of other
limitations with this research probably
the main one is that it's virtually
impossible to blind the subjects in this
case so they're fully aware of whether
they're in the treatment group that's
getting the ice bath or the control
group that isn't getting the ice baths
and I think that that leaves them very
susceptible to the placebo effect and it
could very well be the case that since
there is such a widespread belief that
this cold treatment therapy is effective
at reducing soreness that could sort of
be playing into the subjective reports
of these
subjects in terms of their own perceived
levels of muscle soreness after training
and in the days after the ice bath and
of course I think all that we think we
know from this present analysis is that
some sort of cryotherapy seems to be
better than just sitting there basically
doing nothing at reducing delayed onset
muscle soreness however that doesn't
speak to how it might stack up against
other recovery modalities such as doing
a 10 minute post-workout cooldown and in
fact a recent issue of the mass research
review highlights some newer research
showing that Coldwater immersion therapy
doesn't improve recovery better than a
simple 10-minute low intensity bout of
cycling now some people may note the
time-tested efficacy of cold or ice
based treatments at reducing
inflammation and while this has been
shown to be effective in animal models
especially following injury at 2017
study in the Journal of physiology notes
that no research has examined whether
Coldwater immersion reduces local
inflammation in human skeletal muscle
after a resistance training and it also
points out that the repair of skeletal
muscle tissue following injury is
complex and involves interactions of a
ton of different mediators and pathways
and it's not even clear that reducing
inflammation is the best way to recover
from exercise in fact some research
shows that reducing inflammation and
muscle after injury often in kids muscle
repair and while their overall
conclusion had a very skeptical toned
authors do acknowledge that less muscle
soreness after intense exercise may be
the most consistent effect of cold water
immersion but still as of 2017 the
mechanisms through which cold water
immersion reduces soreness is still
unknown but it may have something to do
with no Chi scepter or pain receptor
activity and I think it's worth pointing
out here that delayed onset muscle
soreness or Dom's probably not caused by
inflammation and this is a common
misconception and I think it's led a lot
of people to seek out treatments that
reduce inflammation as a way of reducing
delayed onset muscle soreness also
things like anti-inflammatory
medications or ice treatments but it
stands to reason that even if these
treatments did reduce inflammation
locally and muscle that doesn't imply
that it'll actually effectively reduce
muscle soreness but with that out of the
way it does really seem to be the case
that certain
therapy's due reduce muscle soreness
after training but for all that it may
not be linked to their reduction in
inflammation which I don't think they've
been strongly shown to do and even still
this potential reduction in soreness may
come at a cost in 2015
Roberts and colleagues split 21 trained
men into two groups
both groups trained lower body only
twice per week for 12 weeks but one
group underwent ten minutes of Coldwater
immersion after every training session
and the other group did 10 minutes of
low intensity cycling after every
session and after the 12 weeks the
simple cycling group saw improved muscle
mass and improved strength more so than
the Coldwater group for every measure
that they tested and in a follow-up
study the same research group determined
that the muscular and performance
detriments from the Coldwater therapy
was likely due to a dampened anabolic
signal and from decreased satellite cell
activity and the authors concluded that
the present findings contribute to an
emerging theme that cold water immersion
and other strategies that are intended
to mitigate and improve resilience to
physiological stress associated with
exercise may actually be
counterproductive to muscle adaptation
okay so in conclusion I would say that
cryo therapies including whole body
cryotherapy and cold water immersion
improve recovery from training is pretty
much busted doesn't seem to be the case
that some of these cryo therapies do
reduce muscle soreness following
training however all of the other
measurements of recovery don't seem to
be too much in favor of the cryotherapy
camp and in fact they make on that quite
a cost when it comes to muscle
hypertrophy and performance adaptations
it does seem to be the case that they
might reduce muscle soreness in the days
following training however I think there
are methodological flaws with that body
of research and I would also point out
that there are other recovery modalities
things like just having a simple
ten-minute cooldown on the bike
following training or doing some foam
rolling may also be an easy way to sort
of reduce that muscle soreness and in my
opinion it might be a cheaper and
perhaps more bearable way to reduce
soreness and dunking yourself in a tub
of cold water after training furthermore
whole body cryotherapy seems to be worse
than cold water immersion therapy so if
you're gonna pick between one or the
other the ice bath is
the way to go however it isn't perfectly
clear that even the ice bath is really
any better than just doing a simple
10-minute cooldown and in fact these
cryo therapies may be coming at a cost
as some of the more recent literature
has shown that it may not be that great
in terms of muscle hypertrophy and
strength performance it may actually
dampen some of the anabolic signals
associated with training um so all
things considered and bringing this full
circle I would say that there does seem
to be more of a potential cost than a
potential benefit when it comes to these
recovery treatment modalities especially
when there are other options available
that seem to be just as effective use it
at your own discretion is what I would
say so that's going to conclude this one
guys thank you so much for watching the
video before we go I have to thank
Squarespace for sponsoring another
mythbuster I really do appreciate their
support on the channel and in particular
with this series and if you guys aren't
aware Squarespace is the website creator
platform that I've been using to run my
own website and my own online store for
several years now actually and I find it
to be a great service and they have
amazing customer support that's always
there to help you out if you run into
any issues and they have beautiful
designer custom templates there's just a
huge range of selections to choose from
and they're all very modern sleek
looking and very aesthetic I'm so if you
guys would like to get started with your
own website and we're running your own
online store you can go to Squarespace
com forward slash and Nippert and that
will save you 10% off your first
purchase thanks again guys so much for
watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you liked the video don't
forget to subscribe if you're new to the
channel and I will see you guys all here
next Monday