all right so i'm sorry to be the bearer
of bad news here but here's the reality
unless you're a genetic outlier who just
naturally has an easier time staying
lean or you've got some kind of
pharmaceutical assistance on your side
10 body fat is likely not a very good
goal as far as year round conditioning
is concerned the fitness industry has
really done a fantastic job of warping
people's perception in terms of what it
actually means to be lean and the plain
fact is that 10 body fat is just flat
out too lean for most men now this has
nothing to do with encouraging laziness
or settling for mediocrity like some
people might think it's just about
making a logical cost benefit analysis
and understanding that in the vast
majority of cases the overall downsides
of maintaining a very lean physique
pretty clearly outweigh the upsides now
keep in mind that i'm just speaking in
general terms here since body fat
percentages can never be measured with
100 accuracy and genetics are a factor
as well so i'm not saying this applies
to every single person but what i am
saying is that it applies to most
natural lifters out there who are not
genetically elite and who don't make a
living from their physique and in this
video today i'm going to give you five
important points to consider on this and
then i'll explain what i recommend you
do instead and i don't want to sound
overly dramatic here but this kind of
shift in thinking literally can be
life-changing for some people so if you
spend any amount of time consuming
fitness content looking at physiques
online and where maintaining a
reasonably lean physique feels like an
important goal to you i'd highly
recommend that you don't skip this over
because these are five key things you
really need to be aware of and let me
know in the comments which one of these
resonates with you the most all right
point number one is that a true 10 body
fat is actually way leaner than most
people think so many out there talk
casually about being 10 body fat like
it's no big deal you know anyone can
write in an online comment section that
they're currently sitting at 10 or even
lower than that but in reality most
people way overestimate how lean they
truly are it was negative numbers it was
minus two i've been doing this online
fitness stuff for over a decade and a
half at this point and after going
through countless thousands of comments
and physique photos i'd say that if you
really want to know someone's true body
fat percentage you're usually best off
to just take whatever they quote
themselves as online and add at least
three to five percent to it i see people
all the time claiming that they're eight
percent body fat when they're more like
twelve percent or twelve percent when
they're literally like twenty percent
plus a legitimate ten percent body fat
is very very lean okay clearly defined
six pack with no significant excess
abdominal fat aside from just a tiny
little pinch an overall dry and carved
out look striations at least in some
areas vascularity sharp almost sunken
facial features it's really lean so
right off the bat let's acknowledge that
for most lifters out there their idea of
10 body fat is probably more like 12 13
14 in reality this is me at roughly 10
here and while i'm definitely not
shredded it's probably decently leaner
than most other people who claim to be
10 body fat are so if your idea of 10
body fat is actually 12 to 14 then sure
that's probably doable but if your goal
is to actually be a true 10 body fat
year round that's a much different story
the second point to consider assuming
we're talking about a true 10 body fat
is that the difficulty of getting leaner
doesn't operate in a straight linear
fashion for each percentage point that
you want to drop and instead it operates
more on a curve where once you hit
around the mid teens body fat percentage
wise getting increasingly leaner at that
point becomes disproportionately more
challenging for each point that you try
to drop further at the end of the day
body fat is a stored form of energy your
body requires a certain amount for
optimal functioning and the more you try
to get rid of that fat once you're
already pretty lean the harder and
harder your body's gonna fight back to
hold on to the remaining amount and the
more uncomfortable the symptoms are
gonna get in terms of hunger mental food
focus energy strength mood concentration
libido it affects a lot of different
areas i don't care how much volume
eating you do or how much extra walking
you try to get in per day or how much
coffee and sparkling water you drink to
effortlessly get down to single digit
body fat hollywood physique levels those
things will help out to a certain degree
but when it all comes down to it you
can't outsmart those basic evolutionary
survival mechanisms your body knows when
it's in an energy deficit and to what
degree and 10 body fat is just too far
outside the optimal zone for most people
to maintain on an ongoing basis unless
they're willing to permanently feel like
crap essentially and it's not just that
you won't feel good physiologically but
keep in mind that all of those dieting
related side effects are also going to
negatively impact basically every other
area of your life whether it's work
school social life sex life other
hobbies and pursuits you might have
outside of fitness when you're going
through your day and you feel tired and
hungry and your mood and your mental
functioning is suppressed and all you
can think about is getting to that next
meal weight training and cardio aside
that's also going to spill over into
everything else that you do whatever
other goals and pursuits that you have
outside of fitness will suffer too to
where unless you're making a living from
your physique the cost-to-benefit ratio
just doesn't make sense the third point
to keep in mind is that 10 body fat is
also nowhere near as common as you might
think now the fact that something isn't
common doesn't mean you shouldn't strive
for it of course i mean maybe that makes
you even more motivated to strive for it
but most people out there who spend a
lot of time consuming online fitness
content definitely have a distorted idea
where they see all these people
maintaining eight to ten percent body
fat all year and so they think it must
not be that difficult or be all that big
of a deal but the issue with online
fitness whether it's youtube or
instagram or tick tock is that generally
speaking what you're seeing represents
the very tail end of the bell curve in
terms of muscularity and leanness these
platforms are based on pushing the
content that generates the most
attention and engagement and of course
that's going to be the most
extraordinary physiques of everything
that's out there and so when you're
scrolling through the explore feed and
those top tier physiques are 90 plus of
what shows up it rewires your perception
to where you think those kinds of
physiques are much more common than they
really are when actually it's the top
0.0001 percent that you're seeing over
and over and usually that's going to be
people with favorable genetics whose
lives revolve heavily around fitness and
where they actually earn money from
their physique like it's literally their
job to be lean
ped use is a factor not to mention
filters and angles and editing and all
that good stuff which usually makes
people look a lot leaner than they truly
are in real life by the way if you're
finding this helpful so far don't forget
to hit the like button and subscribe to
the channel to stay up to date on future
videos but do keep in mind that outside
of this concentrated little online
bubble in the real world almost no one
in your day-to-day life is maintaining a
true 10 body fat on a permanent basis
temporarily for a photo shoot or a
competition sure but just go and take a
look around the gym forget out on the
street even with random people who don't
even lift but even at the gym you will
rarely see a natural lifter with good
muscular development who is also 10 body
fat all the time very rare unless maybe
you train at some popular fitness
influencer concentrated gym which sounds
pretty terrible to be honest anyway and
on top of how rare it is also keep in
mind that even for the people who
legitimately are 10 or lower all you're
seeing is what's on the surface but not
what's beneath it you don't know how
much a lot of these people are
struggling deep down how much pressure
they might feel or what their physical
and mental health is truly like
body image issues eating disorders this
kind of stuff is actually pretty rampant
in the fitness industry and you'd be
surprised that behind the big smile in
that instagram flexing beach photo a lot
of those people are actually
miserable but you'd never know it until
they finally come out with their how
trying to stay shredded ruin my life
confession video and i'll give you my
actual recommended body fat range to
avoid these negative consequences in a
second here so make sure to stick with
me point number four is that you can
also make the argument that despite
everything we just talked about ten
percent body fat doesn't even
necessarily look better in the first
place compared to carrying slightly more
body fat now obviously this is a
subjective thing and different people
will have different opinions but i don't
think there's any doubt that no matter
where you sit on the healthy body fat
spectrum there's always going to be pros
and cons at a very lean body fat
percentage you'll have more muscle
definition obviously vascularity
six-pack abs you'll look bigger and more
impressive when your shirtless are in a
tank top and also in photos and videos
but on the other hand also keep in mind
that you're going to lose a decent
amount of muscle fullness along with it
in normal clothes which is probably how
you spend the majority of your day
you're going to look a lot less
impressive possibly even to the point of
barely looking like you lift depending
on just how lean you are and how much
muscle you're carrying your face is also
going to have a more depleted sucked
down appearance some people like that i
definitely don't i also find that my
neck area shrinks down quite a bit so
just remember that there's actually no
perfect body fat level in the sense that
slightly higher body fat will give you
less definition but more size whereas
lower body fat will give you more
definition but less size so you can't
just look at the upsides of one given
outcome without also taking into account
the downsides as well and then finally
point number five is to remember that if
you're trying to maintain 10 body fat on
an ongoing basis don't expect to be
putting on any real muscle during that
time building muscle requires energy and
at a permanent 10 body fat your calorie
intake is not going to be high enough to
properly fuel that process nor do you
have enough energy reserves available in
the form of stored fat to fuel it either
your body is a survival machine and you
can't just endlessly recomp and swap out
body fat calories for new muscle at some
point once you reach a certain level of
leanness fat preservation becomes the
priority for your body and unless you're
willing to eat more and sacrifice a bit
of that leanness you're just going to
come to a stand standstill as far as
muscle growth is concerned so if you're
a novice to intermediate lifter who has
definite goals of wanting to put on more
muscle and strength trying to maintain
10 body fat year-round is a fantastic
way to spin your wheels and get
absolutely nowhere so those are the five
key points i wanted to share in regards
to maintaining 10 body fat let me know
below which one you agree with most and
now the question is what should you do
instead okay what level of body fat
should you realistically aim for well
again keep in mind that body fat
percentages are just estimates but after
being in the fitness space for the past
15 years and coaching a ton of people
and observing and interacting with other
experts and other lifters in the gym and
looking at the research and the
statistics plus taking my own personal
experience into account as well i would
say that about 12
body fat is as lean as most guys can
realistically sustain on an ongoing
basis and even that can be pretty
challenging for some people and doesn't
guarantee optimal physical and mental
functioning the reality is that 12 body
fat actually puts you in the top one
percent of the overall population in
terms of leanness and i'd say it's
probably right at the border to where
trying to go lower really starts tipping
the balance and to where the input
becomes less and less worth the output
the side effects combined with the
amount of restriction involved turns it
into a 24 7 job more or less and it
starts to become a net negative for your
life as a whole yes you'll look
impressive but looking impressive is not
everything without taking all other
areas into account so 12 percent i'd put
as the general cutoff in most cases and
from there if having that leaner more
aesthetic look is still important to you
up to about 15 will still look very good
if you have sufficient muscular
development to go along with it keep in
mind that the more muscle you carry the
leaner you're going to appear with a bit
more body fat which is just another
reason why you need to commit to those
definite gaining phases versus trying to
stay lean year round since in the long
run it'll actually allow you to sit at a
slightly higher body fat while still
looking just as lean so taking all
factors into account i'm pretty
confident in saying that about 12 to 15
body fat is going to be the sweet spot
where you'll have the optimal balance
between muscle fullness and muscle
definition while also feeling your best
physically and mentally you'll look
great without a shirt you'll still have
enough fullness to look impressive in a
shirt excessive hunger and food focus
won't be a problem strength energy
cognitive functioning mood libido those
will all be on point you'll be less
likely to fall into that overly neurotic
body dysmorphia trap of obsessing over
every ounce of fat you gain or lose and
you'll still have good overall lifestyle
freedom as well you can go out and eat
with your friends you don't have to
micromanage every single calorie going
on a trip is no big deal and if you do
happen to gain a bit of extra fat it's
also very easy to get back on track
it'll just put you into a healthier more
balanced head space overall if you want
to go lower than 12 percent temporarily
for whatever reason then fine whether
it's for a photo shoot vacation or just
as a personal challenge and if you want
to go even higher than that up to as
much as maybe 18 to 20 that's okay too
depending on your goals and preferences
but 12 to 15
that's going to be just right if you
want both an impressively lean and
muscular physique that you can actually
sustain long term without revolving your
entire existence around your training
and diet if you want some more help
getting your overall fitness program
onto the right track whether your goal
is to achieve 12 to 15 body fat or
you're mainly focused on gaining muscle
right now make sure to visit
shawnell.com custom just fill out the
short form on that page and i'll send
you back a free step-by-step training
program based on your current condition
and goals along with an easy to follow
nutrition plan as well the link for that
is in the description box when it comes
to effective supplementation you can
also visit realscienceathletics.com
to check out my own line of research
backed clinically dosed formulas i
personally created from scratch to
maximize your results and you can use
code youtube15 to save 15 off your first
order here are two more videos i'd
recommend watching now don't forget to
subscribe to the channel and turn on
notifications thanks for watching guys
and i will talk to you again soon