[Music]
[Music]
all right what's going on guys so in
this video i'm going to be taking you
through a full day of main gaining which
is what i'm doing at the moment now if
you haven't heard that term before i
just like to think of it as a type of
recomp where your goal is to roughly
maintain your body weight while gaining
strength in the gym and ideally gaining
a little muscle mass as well and for me
that usually comes toward the end of an
extended bulk before starting a cut and
i think that a period of main gaining
like this can be a really good
transition phase out of the bulk because
it gives you an opportunity to really
dial in your training while setting up
some good consistent nutrition habits
before hopping into a full-blown fat
loss phase now of course you can always
just ride the main gain or the recomp
wave as long as it's working for you you
don't need to cut unless you really want
to prioritize fat loss at some point now
you might end up tightening up a bit at
the beginning of a main gaining phase
anyway because oftentimes i find that
just being more intentional with your
nutrition will result in some water loss
and maybe a little fat loss but then
you'll settle into this weight that you
can just maintain as you gain strength
and ideally muscle in the gym of course
how feasible the gain muscle part is
will depend on how close you are to your
genetic ceiling but i would say that
most people should expect to see some
lean gains during a main gaining phase
assuming your training is on point and
assuming you aren't trying to maintain
too lean of a physique now on that note
i should say that i originally heard the
main gaining term from the team 3dmj
guys 9 or 10 years ago i think i first
heard it from alberto nunez and these
transition phases were used in natural
bodybuilding so competitors could eke
out a little more lean gains toward the
end of an offseason without accruing
excessive body fat now i know some
people have started using main gaining
to describe a situation where you
maintain this very shredded physique
while also making simultaneous muscle
gains but that's not how it was
originally used and i don't think that's
the best way to think about it i think
main gaining works a lot better at a
moderate to slightly higher body fat
percentage in the 12 to 20 percent zone
as a male or the 20 to 30 zone as a
female and that's because you actually
have enough body fat to fuel that
energetically expensive muscle building
process so to set this up properly you
want to place your calories at around
maintenance intake so what you need to
maintain your body weight eat relatively
high protein and really focus on
progressing with your training okay so
for me i've been pretty much bulking
through the whole pandemic i went from
about 160 pounds to just over 180 pounds
and now i'm doing this main gaining
phase for a few months before hopping
into a formal fat loss phase and these
will be my macros for the day so about 3
000 calories 200 grams of protein 90
grams of fat and 350 grams of carbs
these macros are obviously unique to me
my metabolism my activity habits and so
on and so i wouldn't copy them exactly
but just so you know i set my protein up
at 1.1 grams of protein per pound of
body weight or 2.4 grams per kilo and
that's just because i have found that
being on slightly higher protein is a
bit better for recomp however you
probably don't need that much protein
and around 0.7 to 1 gram per pound or
1.6 to 2.2 grams per kilo does seem to
be plenty for maximizing muscle growth
according to the best science and then i
usually set my fats at something around
20 to 25 percent of total calories and
fill in the rest with carbs i'm also
using the macro factor app to set all
this up which i really think is the new
gold standard as far as nutrition apps
go i've personally seen the apps
development since before the beta
version and i've been using it ever
since that first release so if you'd
like to try it out for yourself you can
use it for two weeks for free if you go
to the first link in the description box
down below and use code jeff after you
download that'll help support me and the
work that i'm doing here on the channel
so thanks to macro factor for supporting
the video and i'll have a little more
info about that at the end all right
let's get started with the first meal
all right so guys here we have got meal
one of the day this is a
breakfast potato hash and in there i've
got a whole bunch of different
ingredients i'm gonna quickly take you
guys through how it is that i make this
so first i'll dice up four or five mixed
baby potatoes into cubes coat them with
some olive oil spray or just drizzle a
little bit of actual olive oil i'll
season them with some ground cumin salt
and parsley and then i'll put them in
the microwave for about three minutes
while the potatoes are pre-cooking i'll
slice up some onion and mushrooms and
press or chop one clove of garlic and
fry that up in a non-stick pan once they
cook a bit i'll add some meat so i use
turkey bacon and beyond meat vegan
sausage which adds a really good flavor
then i'll add some diced red peppers and
green peppers and once the peppers start
to soften a bit i'll move that mix to a
separate bowl and then add the potatoes
at the edges crisp and brown a bit see
that and then i'll add the veggies back
in and mix in two whole eggs with two
egg whites scrambled with a drop of milk
and then i'll just mix all that together
now i'm personally a big fan of goat
cheese but if you don't like goat cheese
then you can easily just use some
shredded cheese or no cheese at all if
you want it to be a little lower fat and
then to go with this meal i've got my
supplements and a sun gold kiwi so for
the supplements i've got my creatine
i've got a multivitamin and some fish
oils and these are the macros for that
meal so 42 grams of protein 25 grams of
fat and 40 grams of carbs so i'm going
to enjoy this and i will check in with
you guys for meal number two yeah i'm
gonna get the ingredients ready for meal
two so
just put it in the tupperware so i kind
of have this this meal ready to go so
there's virtually no prep for this meal
i just use minute rice you could
obviously like pre-cook the rice
yourself but i just found this to be a
little bit more
convenient put that in there for a
minute and then i'm going to weigh out
100 grams of green turkey i actually
cooked this up yesterday so i'll just
weigh out 100 grams of this
cooked
good enough usually i have a decent
helping of sour cream like that's
probably more like three three
tablespoons
30 grams of shredded cheese if i was
dieting i'd probably go for a slightly
lower fat cheese option but my fats are
fairly high so i'll just go with the
tastier full fat version for now and
then on top of that i will add
my sriracha which i love sriracha so i
can go crazy with
this and then i'll just mash all that
together and then for the side i've got
some mixed berries so over here we've
got blackberries raspberries
and underneath there are some
blueberries um so there's about 100
grams of mixed berries and this is 100
grams of cantaloupe it is a excellent
source of vitamin a and also vitamin c
so that's gonna be the pre-workout meal
i'll eat this and then in about a half
an hour i will have my pre-workout and
then i'll train about a half an hour
from there so this will be about one
hour out and i will put the macros for
this meal up here on the screen so you
guys can see it so we've got 56 grams of
protein 22 grams of fat and 83 grams of
carbs so just real quick what i try to
do is kind of roughly evenly space my
protein out throughout the day try to
make sure i've got about one gram of
carbohydrate per kilogram of body weight
so i'm like about 80 kilos now so i'll
try to have like at least 80 grams of
carbs in the pre-workout meal as for
fats 22 grams is like slightly on the
higher side but i personally would
rather train with more of a full stomach
than an empty one that's kind of more of
a personal preference thing uh but yeah
i'm gonna eat this and i'll check in
with you guys for the workout in a
little bit
[Music]
when you find out you got your ten reps
who wrote this program
who did
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
come on
[Music]
[Music]
just finished up the set of 10 with 350.
um normally i'll leave this a little bit
but
i feel like i could use a little bit of
gatorade right now so
i'll kind of just sip on one of these
throughout the workout um it isn't an
exact science or anything just my
workouts tend to take usually an hour
and a half sometimes longer depending on
how much i'm taking my time so this is
23 grams of carbs just meant to be
kind of a fast supply of energy because
i bracket my workout with a protein
source i don't really worry about um
intra-workout aminos or anything like
that especially when my calories are at
maintenance we're in a surplus gonna
finish out the workout and uh check in
with you guys post-workout
all right so guys we just finished up
that workout that was a full body
workout from my power building 2.0
program i know a lot of you guys are
running that uh powerbuilding 3.0
actually just finished writing that uh
last night and that's gonna be shipped
off to the designer probably tomorrow um
so anyway i'm still on target to have
that release the end of this month at
the latest uh the first week of february
i'm a little bit behind on uh my
training because i filmed this uh pretty
crazy mini documentary with ryze and
that literally took two weeks out of
like my scheduled programming um so i'm
having to like adjust things a little
bit i'm gonna kind of jump ahead in pb2
but anyway um after a workout i usually
don't have too much of an appetite right
away it usually takes like at least an
hour or two for me to feel like i want
to eat so to remedy that i basically
just have a
protein shake after i train so
i usually mix up some select protein
with some milk and i also have a piece
of fruit so
just have one of these bananas and this
is a weight casing blend obviously you
don't have to go with pea science i'm
sponsored by them so i get this stuff
for free but i do think away casein
blend is a really good option post
workout get the fast digesting protein
from the whey and you get a more
sustained release from the casein so
this is what i go with tastes really
good mint cookie flavor is great
that's how you get a stomachache
actually not expected to be that much
liquid
all right
yeah i'm not gonna eat this on camera
and so these are the macros for this
meal if you also include the gatorade
that i had intra workout so 34 grams of
protein four grams of fat and 67 grams
of carbs so this is meal number four so
like my first uh pretty much solid whole
food post workout meal so we've got this
burrito with you can see inside there's
a lot in there and uh it's a pretty
beefy burrito i'm just gonna take you
guys through how it is that i prepared
this uh here real quick so there's
pretty much an easy way and a slightly
harder way to do this the easiest way is
to just cook the chicken
in an air fryer if you want it to taste
a little bit better you can marinate the
chicken first for the marinade i mix
together half a tablespoon of olive oil
the juice from half a lime about half a
teaspoon of salt half a teaspoon of
chili powder about half a teaspoon of
garlic powder quarter teaspoon of cumin
and a little sprinkle of oregano then i
butterfly some fresh chicken so the meat
is really thin and add that to the
marinade cover that and let it sit for
about an hour um so in that time i'll
just do a little bit of work or start to
prep the veggies then i'll pan fry up
the chicken in a non-stick pan so you
get this nice crisp outer edge from the
spices and marinade for the veggies i'll
chop up some onion green pepper and red
pepper and then add that to the marinade
to give the veggies some flavor and then
once the chicken's done cooking i'll add
the vegetables to the pan and then let
them cook for a few minutes until the
peppers start to soften a bit and as
long as the liquid all comes to a boil
it'll be safe to use the same marinade
from the chicken then from there it's
just a matter of filling the burrito so
you want to get pretty much the biggest
burrito tortilla that you can find
and then i'll add chicken vegetables
some black beans a little bit of rice a
little bit of cheddar cheese some
guacamole and salsa and then you just
roll up the burrito which is actually
harder than it looks once it's rolled
throw it back on the pan to toast the
ends and then you're good to go then
that takes me to this point here where
we just slice the burrito so i'll eat
this dip it in a little bit of sour
cream and then the thing about main
gaining or lean bulking is you tend to
have some ingredients left over for your
burrito so uh whatever rice i have left
over and whatever peppers i have left
over i'll kind of just like mix that
together and then eat that separately
after i eat the burrito so the macros
for this meal are 48 grams of protein 24
grams of fat and 93 grams of carbs so
this is my highest carb meal of the day
and then as an alternate meal sometimes
what i'll have is my mom's best chili
which a couple years ago i feel i think
was a couple years ago i did a full day
of eating and showed you guys this so i
actually have the recipe here i don't
know if i shared that last time or not
but i know a ton of people still like
every day email me asking me for that
recipe so i'm gonna link the recipe to
my mom's chili down below
that's another like really high fiber
really satiating dinner type meal that
i'll have pretty often that's for me i'm
gonna enjoy the burrito and uh check in
with you guys for the last meal in a
little bit all right last meal of the
day for this we're doing
a greek yogurt concoction so i'm gonna
add peanut butter honey and greek yogurt
and splenda so we are doing
three quarters of a cup of greek yogurt
which has 16 grams of protein in general
dairy is usually a pretty good option
before bed because it tends to be really
slow digesting because of the casein
protein greek yogurt or cottage cheese
are usually good options if you don't
like dairy or if you don't eat dairy for
whatever reason you can make any type of
protein more slow digesting by just
increasing the fat or fiber content of
the meal if you want to add like some
nuts or i'll be having popcorn with this
meal that'll help slow the rate of
stomach emptying and help give you like
a more sustained supply of amino acids
through the night of course like your
daily protein intake in total is going
to be the most important thing but if
you're looking to kind of optimize i do
think that pre-bed protein is a good
opportunity to kind of make sure that
you're not risking any muscle loss
through the night i had about a
tablespoon but i kind of just ballparked
this i don't really measure that out
i do like three quarters of a packet of
splenda i don't like it to be too too
sweet i'm gonna weigh this just so you
guys know so like
one tablespoon of peanut butter is 15
grams a lot of people think like oh i'm
gonna have a tablespoon of peanut butter
like a tablespoon of peanut butter is
probably more
like that i'm gonna guess you know so
like it's not like an enormous amount
this might even be more than 15 grams so
let's see
that is
this is a pretty easy way to get like a
pretty high volume of food something
good to snack on throw this in the
microwave
and that'll be a lot more and then i
will usually just kind of mix all that
together like that
and
eat this while i watch a show or
something so the macros are 25 grams of
protein 17 grams of fat and 63 grams of
carbs to finish off the full day of
eating one thing i was gonna say like
just for the sake of being flexible like
i offered some different alternatives
sometimes what i'll do during the week
is i'll just kind of combine the macros
from say meal four and meal five and
i'll order in some sushi or i'll order
some thai food i'm not super strict with
my tracking targets but i do try to get
in the right ballpark and i won't track
every single day but on the days that i
do track i do use macro factor so if you
guys are interested i'll have a little
more information about that now if not i
will see you guys in the next video
all right so before we wrap it up i want
to tell you guys a little bit more about
the macro factor app so since this is a
video about main gaining i figured i'd
just show you guys how you'd set up a
main gaining phase as a recomp goal by
simply setting your goal weight as your
current weight or a bit lower if you
want to tighten up a bit at the start
then the app uses a dynamic maintenance
meaning if your weight trend gets too
far above your maintenance zone it'll
automatically adjust your macros down a
bit or if you get too far below the
target zone it'll bump you up into a
surplus i think the thing that i like
the most about the app is that it does a
really good job at distilling all the
best evidence-based recommendations down
so you don't need to worry about
calculating and adjusting your macros
all the time obviously your caloric
needs change as you gain or lose weight
as your activity levels change and as
your metabolism and neat levels adapt
now you could track everything and make
those adjustments yourself or you could
hire a nutrition coach to help you but
macro factor will do it all for you at a
fraction of the cost of a nutrition
coach and unlike most apps you don't
have to stick perfectly to the app's
recommendations for it to still make the
proper adjustments it also has some
other really cool features like a super
fast barcode scanner that auto populates
the macros for you and it also
accurately reports micronutrients like
vitamins and minerals which is nice to
take a look at from time to time like i
said earlier i do think this is the best
premium nutrition app out there and it's
constantly improving so if you'd like to
try it out for free for the next two
weeks just click the first link in the
description box down below and use code
jeff thanks again to macro factor for
showing their support here on the
channel i really appreciate it and thank
you guys so much for watching and i'll
see you all here in the next one