if Eric is training his chest and
triceps once a week this workout makes
some sense as far as the volume if he's
training his chest and triceps the more
recommended twice a week I have no idea
how he's actually recovering from this
much
[Music]
volume hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I a professor
of sport and exercise science and a
competitive bodybuilder though I'm not
so good at a lot of things in
[Music]
life bodybuilding is one of them but
today I am reviewing the videos of
someone who is significantly better than
me at bodybuilding and also at just
being a total freak Eric
janicki with a last name that makes a
Polish person blush just kidding there's
18 fewer vows than I expected let's see
what his training looks like this guy is
a top nationally ranked amateur though
no doubt soon to be Pro super
heavyweight bodybuilder that means he
weighs something like 290 in the off
season I think it's stepping on stage
somewhere in the 250s or 260s it uh what
looks like to be about oh I don't know
I'm guessing at this point but 5ish or 6
feet tall or something like that let's
take a look at how his training is he's
huge On The Ground by the way I do
believe he's on YouTube as well so give
him a follow if you like what you see
what are we going to see here Dr Mike
you may ask yourself right now let
out that is 10 plates that's a lot of
plates I actually know that exact leg
press I own one it is the Arsenal leg
press and I would say it's in the
discussion for the best leg press period
um it allows you to get really really
deep it's Ultra smooth it's got an
adjustable back plate
so let's see what this range of motion
is like it
looks nonsensical
wow that is crazy depth all right so you
can see that his heels are still on that
plate and his butt isn't coming off of
that back seat
whatsoever his chest is high his tummy
is out and his knees are moving just to
the outsides of his torso kind of into
his armpits this is incredible
incredible technique incredibly rare to
see and you will almost never see this
with 10 plates Eric's a freak but he's
also a technique Mastermind so it makes
this doubly triply better to watch cuz
when someone's putting 10 plates on the
leg press if you're betting on it you
can make good money on average just
betting that they're going to suck
because 10 plates is just well it's just
too much weight to be done properly by
most people Eric is not most people buy
a long shot this is incredible work oh
he locked out he's going to die nope
still alive look at that Ecentric
control his movement on the way down is
slow getting all that juice out of the
muscles getting that hypertrophy
maximally stimulated and making it very
safe he keeps his chest up at the bottom
as a matter of fact as he goes down he
raises his chest which gives you even
more flexion in all of the right joints
we're not trying to come down and get
all um sort of in between ourselves it's
good to open up to expose your quads to
the tension this is one of the ways to
leg press very close to perfect way to
leg press for maximum gains in the quads
and it'll even hit your glutes too cuz
holy push day full offseason mode
right now so trying to get absolutely
enormous so I'm going to walk you
through Eric you ready absolutely
enormous I guess more enormous
everybody's like why don't you start
with a heavy press I really like
starting with a fly movement for a
couple reasons really opens up the chest
makes me feel a lot more primed for my
pressing movements second reason reason
is that fatigue I want to build up a
little bit of fatigue which sounds
strange going into my pressing mov the
reason for that is my goal is growth
hypertrophy so if I can actually lift
less weight on my presses put myself at
less risk cuz pressing you're obviously
stronger than a fly position so if I can
pre fatigue I don't have to press this
heavy that way with my presses come I
maybe can do 70% 60% maybe 80% of what I
could have done if IID started with that
exercise what he has on there it says
pre fatigue early on to mitigate heavy
loads later this allows for Less risk of
injury and it's probably true what it
also allows is for you to do less
chronic wear and tear on the joints just
putting heavy loads on your joints is a
fatiguing element and over many many
years of training if you have good
fatigue management it doesn't add up and
it just makes you stronger but we don't
always have great fatigue management so
if you can reduce the amount of weight
you have to lift then what ends up
happening is instead of having you know
500 lb worth of chronic exposure with
your knees or your shoulders or your
elbows you have 400 lb uh on average as
the weight you're lifting for those
joints and that tends to expand the
lifter's longevity it tends to reduce
the probability of aches and pains later
down the line and it allows you to reach
a higher total level of muscularity
because you are less likely to be
hindered by your well just joints being
a piece of and you got to work
around them and stuff like that you
don't want to get into that position to
begin with so what you do instead is
sometimes especially for bigger and
stronger folks people starting out first
5 years of lifting you you just go
compounds first no problem isolations
first for folks as jacked as Eric of
which there are three in this world or
something and folks even less jacked
than that are a really really sharp idea
so he's right on with this stuff and
what I'm going to do is just continually
open up using this exercise so when I
say open up I want to hold that stretch
position really feel that chest really
opening that tissue stretching
underload I have one technique
correction for Eric and for anyone
watching who wants to replicate this the
way to open up your chest most is not to
come up as the opening is happening it's
to go the other way it's to come down so
as he's coming up with his hands into
the fly he should be coming down with
his chest and then on the way back up if
he wants to do some body movement he can
just stay down there he can come back to
the close and come up so the reverse of
what he's doing with his upper body when
you are expanding your chest lean down
because you're leaning into the
expansion and not away from it this will
help you expand more you won't be able
to use as much load but that's exactly
to Eric's plan all right exercise two we
are going to do our first pressing
movement so I'm going to W bring this
around I've got a bench set on 90Â° oh
yeah I got to say this is a fine
exercise but it's annoying to set up you
got to walk that around all that
you got to wheel a bench into the
God bless this man for taking all the
time to do that probably one of my
favorite pressing movements what I'm
going to do is start almost Palm stated
push back
stretch drive out and turn the Palms
over so we're going to go either neutral
whatever is comfortable for you come
back stretch at the back or if you want
to get even more stretch through that
PEC minor come back to
superp press out and squeeze this is
very good I'll say the rotating is
almost certainly not m mandatory and if
it takes a lot of your attention away
from doing high quality Reps for the
actual joints involved I wouldn't do it
Eric's been at this a long time so he
can make all the Synergy work another
thing I would say is if you want to grow
the most your training needs to be hard
and smart RP hypertrophy app will make
sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
results another thing I would say is if
he could get his chest up a little bit
and expand the entire range of motion
especially at the bottom he's kind of
collapsing a little bit at the bottom if
he could expand a little bit that would
be awesome but this is this is a work
it's just not A+ work 90% of my training
is C minus work so why I get to say
like
this burn so bad I got intense hitting
Pars in a stretch position is extremely
efficacious for hypertrophy when you're
opened up you're actually hitting a ton
of chest so if you can do some partials
that stretch position a lot of times you
actually driveing more hypertrophy that
if you partials here at the most
contracted position totally true
excellent points it is in fact the case
that lengthened partials partials at the
Big Stretch position uh have been
validated so far by science and it's
just about five studies so far so it's
it's plenty of research to be more
hypertrophic than certainly partials at
the top end and maybe even in some cases
the entire range of motion so when you
hit if you're if you're training on a
plan that allows you to go to failure
what you can do absolutely is after you
hit concentric failure and can't lock
the out anymore you can get a
couple of reps however many you can in
that bottom half bottom third of the
movement that can continue to push your
muscles huge amounts of stimulus but in
a way that's ratioed very very well to
the fatigue is going Beyond failure
always a smart idea probably not
something you save for a rainy day here
and there maybe at the end of the Mesa
cycle but if and when you are able to
drive to failure finishing with some
length and partials if the exercise
allows for it safely really really great
idea obviously you don't have to take
every set to failure hey I beat him to
it so what we're going to do next is an
incline bench fly kind of for upper
chest so I'll say something cuz now I'm
looking at his physique and well I'm
getting wrecked and I got news for you
that means you're gay he looks big right
he looks
big you got to see him in real
life in real life Eric is aing
Monster there is a difference between
real life physique and YouTube Instagram
physique I am in the lad category if you
ever meet me in real life you'll be like
dude this guy's
52 and he says he weighs 240 but he
doesn't weigh any more than 160 knows
how much I weigh I could be making it
all up Eric in real life is
enormous
enormous just know this all right
incline bench cable fly three sets of 12
to 20 even more flies good God so we're
going to reach back for
it push consciously through the chest
and squeeze the hands into like a shape
of a v the letter V at the top of your
rep V for
vetta Scott your opinions on Natalie
Portman ugly you're a
liar uh this is an excellent exercise
for the upper pecs and Eric is
demonstrating it
flawlessly so reach back back for
it push up
squeeze and stick notice how he's
descending under control and slowly to
get everything out of the movement that
he can there is no rush in hypertrophy
training there is no rush sit upright
and we're going to hit more true upright
flies
here pretend a little
faster so little faster stuff just
personal preference getting that animal
on but I guess he's stronger in flat
flies which makes sense than incline
flies so first he does the incline fly
gets close to failure and then the super
set is he sits upright and does flat
flies and then he hits the up the
only reason he can stay upright like
this in this position is his ass is
enormous and acts as a counterweight to
the you ever see it in real life my
God and I have my God it was wonderful
yeah this is a cool thing I'd say it's
probably if I was doing this video I'd
keep the Cadence the same but if you
want to switch a little it up a little
bit and go faster there's nothing wrong
with that follow your spirit guide all
right folks if this is going pretty well
we have extra extra super extra content
that's extra in the members area so give
that a click and see if you want to pay
us money to get extra content it's extra
I like this push down variant on the
incline bench what I'm going to do is
set up the bench same thing about 33Â°
same as I had it for the last exercise
I'm going to stretch to the top keep
those elbows pinned down push out and
squeeze this is a great exercise it's
awesome variation to the regular cable
push down it does almost The Identical
thing one of the reasons I almost never
use it is because if I have to wheel a
bench to something I'm so lazy that I
just don't even bother I almost never
set up these weird angles Eric loves to
set up the God bless him to me this
is a bit too much but it's a very
effective exercise and he's got really
great advice about keeping those elbows
tucked in so the tricep is doing the
work you see he's stretching all the way
up at the top great stuff we're going to
super set that with about a 30 second
rest with some dips so getting good
Tempo here you guys he weighs like 285
or some in this video let's look at
these dips if they're remotely full
range of motion after pre-exhaust I
don't know what the to do with myself
dips are a little harder I about 287 lb
yeah called it but we're going to do it
I'm going to go 12 to 15 with really
good Tempo so triceps already
burning slow
Ecentric stretch drive
up holy crap my only critique here is
this is unreal impressive super awesome
technique my only critique here is the
little bounce at the bottom it's totally
fine to do I think it's uh probably
needlessly adds a little bit of injury
risk probability um but it's a small
matter if you're used to it you're doing
it this way for quite some time but uh
yeah this is really excellent technique
I would love to see it be slow all the
way down through and then come back up
in a normal fashion and not an explosive
uh kind of plyometric
fashion
unreal dip technique super deep notice
the slow control on the way down
Wonderful by Super Saiyan those already
a lot of fatigue built up so getting
that really big stretch if you try this
at home you may realize that after a set
of any kind of trip movements you'll be
able to do like three and a half dips
and then no more this is for Ultra
strong people especially ratio to their
body weight many people would benefit
from doing dips first and then some more
isolation work if you can do isolation
work first and then dips God bless
that's a great way to do it next one
super setting deficit push-ups with the
incline fly so we're going to do start
with the incline dumbbell fly Big
Stretch through the
chest reach it back big open chest then
fly up so a lot of people will stop
their flies about here what you want to
do is really open up T chest o Arch the
back dig those elbows back if Eric is
training his chest and triceps once a
week this workout makes some sense as
far as the volume if he's training his
chest and triceps the more recommended
twice a week I have no idea how he's
actually recovering from this much
volume now he seems to be recovering
from it just fine what I would say to
anyone who wants to emulate this workout
is start with like onethird the number
of sets and probably about half the
number of exercises that he's doing see
if you can recover on time from your
training for that next session if you
can you're going golden do it again keep
going do a little bit more volume add a
couple sets here and there and then
later on in your program maybe in your
life think about adding an exercise but
properly training High effort the number
of people that can survive I don't know
eight exercises that he's doing on his
push day is super super minimal as a
matter of fact most people systemic
fatigue the overall drain on all of your
body systems from a workout with this
many working sets is going to be so
insane after about three or four
exercises that most of the rest is just
going to be junk volume so just because
Eric can do this doesn't mean the rest
of us can and a matter of fact the rest
of us probably should not be training
this much in a given session I lost
track of how many chest working sets
he's done already it's got to be over
16 push up and squeeze so I'm going to
go here widen out these dumbbells oh my
God he's elevating his feet which makes
it actually sort of an incline push-up
uh it looks like a decline but
biomechanically it's an incline for your
chest
this is really gnarly uh good God this
is really maximum stimulus being
delivered
[Music]
here notice slow on the way down milking
that stretch and then coming back up all
right so that is a wrap full push day
absolutely destroyed all right that was
awesome I would rate Eric's training
like a
97% out of 100 this is A+ work is there
room for improvement on very minor
technical grounds absolutely and there
is with me too on my best day I might
score a 97 on a workout 100 is oh man
that would be something this is about as
good as it gets if you need an enormous
jacked famous popular bodybuilder to
emulate the isn't a person who has the
intellect which leads them to struggle
to tie their shoes and write letters
with a marker Eric is your man
this is someone to look at and go okay I
want to train like that you're going to
train like it you're not going to be
very strong it's going to hurt your
muscles a ton but as you get stronger
you'll realize that you are essentially
joint painfree highly mobile and getting
more and more jacked over time guys this
is the way to do it huge as they say in
nored Kingdom Big Ups to Mr Eric jiki
give him a follow on Instagram give him
a follow on YouTube and I actually
recommend going to the Los Angeles area
and following him around in real life
make sure you stay a couple hundred feet
away cuz he is very giant very muscular
very scary but um I will say I have
stared through his living room window
many many hours on many cold nights and
it's worth every every single
minute anyway see you guys next time all
right if you guys like this video this
one right here that YouTube says you
should watch is a must click on it or
[Music]
else