so what's the answer well the answer is
you start learning your body you start
learning how much volume you can get a
nice stimulus from while still
recovering for your next session good
pump bit of soreness and then the next
session comes Monday was your first
session second session is Thursday by
Thursday you're completely healed and
you're strong and ready to go and then
you hit it again with a certain volume
which isn't also not so little that you
barely feel it and not so much that next
Monday you're still basically broken and
you can't use your legs you're like I'm
supposed to be legs today but I'm in a
wheelchair somewhere between Ultra
extreme and Ultra easy that's the right
part for you so start close to easy and
if it's too easy do a few more sets next
week and if it's a little easy do a few
more sets and eventually you'll build up
to a volume that is the right volume for
you