[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is racquel here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video number 10 when and how
should you be d loading to drop fatigue
to make sure your training continues to
be awesome and safe if you want way more
detailing we're gonna give it a super
quick video check out our hypertrophy
Central guide on our website and check
out all the other YouTube videos that we
have on this channel which go way way
way into more depth on this topic but
here we go a really quick approach
there's really two kinds of diluting we
can do something called a recovery
session and then a formal week-long deal
and so what our recovery sessions from
the last video from the number nine
video of hypertrophy made simple for
progression you'll note that every week
you add some weight and/or wraps and
some sets and that gets harder and
harder and harder until your fatigue is
super super crazy and you won't be able
to beat your prior performance which is
the whole point of progression when that
happens you want to finish that session
strong and just do your best
yes it won't be as good as you could
have done if you recover but you want to
finish that session out as long as
you're not hurt
grind it finish up the next session
which you want to do is do one half of
the plan sets let's say you were
planning six sets you just do three sets
half the plan reps let's say you're
planning sets of ten you're going to be
doing sets of five and the weight is
gonna be cut in half as well let's see
we're gonna do 200 pounds now much water
pounds you'll notice that having
everything makes the work on
unbelievably easy that's awesome that's
what we want it promotes a ton of
recovery so that you're ready to go and
that muscle has sort of eased up all of
its damage and is ready to progress
again how does that work well the next
week when you resume your normal
sessions what you want to do is just
keep the same weight progression that
you have been same rep targets and
everything same reps and reserve as
everything so continue to march towards
failure but you want
restart around two-thirds of your plan
sets if you had done up to six sets that
week before you had to take the recovery
week then the new restart don't go to
six or seven go to four two-thirds of
the way up and then climb everything
just as if it's never happened
keep going up and up and up add weight
reps and sets from there as you normally
would now here's the deal those recovery
sessions
that's called auto-regulatory D loading
a reactive D loading that is a really
good strategy but it doesn't work
forever at some point after about four
to eight weeks of training for most
people multiple muscles will have gone
through this recovery process at least
once which is good that means you've
pushed everything really really hard at
this point your mind and your whole body
is gonna start to feel really really
beat up the quality of all of your
sessions is gonna start to deteriorate
your per session volumes cuz you've been
climbing in number of sets this whole
time will be crazy high and at this
point because you're climbing closer and
closer to failure almost every set will
be a failure that's unsustainable it's
insane and you're gonna begin to
underperform in multiple muscles at the
same time someone's gonna be like hey
how does your leg workouts going to be
like my leg workouts back workout chest
workout shoulder workouts my everything
work outs sock I'm weaker you don't want
to train at a consistently weakened
state because that's the opposite of
making progress so at this point for one
whole week you want to do the first half
of the week just the first half you one
whole week of D load the first half
you're going to take and do half the
plan sets or if you're doing 10 sets you
do 5 ok half the plan reps if you're
doing sets of 10 you do sets of 5 but
100 percent of the last week's weight so
if you're lifting 300 pounds of still
300 pounds
pretty tough workouts but way less reps
way fewer sets starting to recover the
last half of that week though and last
half of the week let's say Wednesday
through Sunday what you want to do is
half the sets
half the reps and half the week it's
like the recovery session we just talked
about except all the sessions that week
or recovery so it's super duper easy
after that entire D load week first half
harder so I can have really much easier
you're gonna go and follow the
instructions from video number 9 on
progression and restart the progression
all over again
that's it