the number one exercise for growing
bigger lats is the dumbbell pullover and
here's why by lying down you're
minimizing the fatigue that other muscle
groups incur from stabilizing you during
the exercise the dumbbell pullover is
functionally a lengthen partial
something the research suggests might be
better for muscle growth when compared
to a full range of motion indeed the
resistance curve in a dumbbell pullover
is such that the exercise gets harder as
you stretch out the lats likewise the
exercise ends before you can get a full
contraction in your lats as you stop the
exercise at 90Â° of shoulder extension
finally compared to the cable pullover
it's much easier to go to failure on a
dumbbell pullover there are few moving
parts so you can't just shift your hips
around to get that last rep as easily
for all these reasons I think the
dumbbell pullover is the best lat
exercise give it a shot and let me know
what you think