hey folks it's me dr mike oh and yes
this is the renaissance periodization
youtube channel so i suppose i'm here
for renaissance periodization
weekly tip you love these you obsess
about them you can't wait for them and
here they are i won't do any more puns
or stupid jokes milking the stretch
on
chest flies
actually of any kind
cable machine
pack deck even which is kind of a stupid
machine and dumbbell more particularly
what does that mean milking the stretch
and
why is that a good thing so you can do
flies like a regular exercise which just
means you're kind of just doing like
this like normal cadence whatever you
could even do a pause and come back down
i got to make sure i sit properly for
this demo i'm about to give you guys
here
anyway
so here's the thing that's totally fine
that'll get you good growth but it has
been shown
that producing a high degree of tension
under a stretch at the same time so
what's called a loaded stretch is
actually uniquely hypertrophic and
probably the most hypertrophic stimulus
you could impose in a variety of
conditions not all but a whole bunch of
them and good news the pecs are
excellently positioned for this because
you can stretch them an inordinate
amount while still having a very safe
shoulder position and no other muscles
limiting so we can focus on this as a
variation to try and you might like it
better so check this out instead of
doing regular flies
lock in a certain joint angle for your
elbows probably like 135 degrees like
here's one 81 135 is like right over
there
and
as the weight descends you push your
chest up okay so as you're descending
under control not quickly
the lower you go the higher you lift
your chest that pre-stretches it for you
then as you're going down and especially
at the bottom you're retracting your
shoulder blades good news retracting
your shoulder blades and pushing your
chest up are almost the same movement
they super reinforce each other so it's
not one of those like people say like
stay upright but also drive through your
hips and in the squat it's like well if
i drove through my hips as hard as i
could i would just pull over it's not a
contradictory movement not a
contradictory cue the two cues reinforce
each other chest up and shoulders back
shoulder blades retracted it's going to
be a big stretch on the chest even not
in the high degree of motion and then
do not bend your elbow differently
because you're going to want to bend it
less and take the stretch off of the
pecs you want to keep the stretch on
keep that elbow bent the same degree
don't do this don't do that and you're
going to develop a painful ripping
stretch through your pecs
down to where the pain is nice and high
and you really can't retract anymore
without losing a ton of tension
keep the chest up and hold that position
for one full second like it's gonna look
like this you're gonna go like this big
chest a little bit tearing and then just
gently come back up and repeat if you do
that
you may experience a crapload of
disruption in chest you may notice that
your pumps are better your mind muscle
connection is better and if you try this
method
reduce the number of sets of flies you
do at least for the first session that
you try this in versus normally so if
you normally do like four sets of flies
try this with like two or three sets it
will fuck your chest up what's gonna
happen is these flies after you're done
with your workout they're gonna be
laying in bed with your chest and both
smoking cigarettes and just kind of
being like
fucking
good
and then the flies are like
you want you want anything like a
sandwich or an orange juice and the
chest is like
i'm fucking golden and like sweet and
that's just how the scene ends see you
next time
you