you're probably mistaken about how much
water you need to drink each day there
are many common recommendations thrown
around around how much water you should
consume such as eight glasses per day
while the provence of this exact
recommendation remains unclear a recent
review paper by Yad and colleagues
suggested that for most people a waterra
intake of 3 to 4 lers per day will be
adequate however there are many
environmental and lifestyle factors that
can impact this specifically if you live
in hotter climates at higher altitudes
have higher physical activity levels
have a higher body weight and specific
Ally a higher fat free mass or you live
in particularly cold environment between
say 0° C and -1° C all of these factors
can cause you to require more fluids
importantly much of this fluid intake
can be provided through food consumption
especially because whole foods contain a
good amount of fluid what should you
drink well it turns out most beverages
do a decent job of hydrating you based
on this study here most beverages have a
beverage hydration index Al around one
suggesting that they're about equally
effective at hydrating you as waterers
that is why