hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization weekly tip number 16. yep
i'm still counting them maybe in
hundreds of years i'll be in tip number
whatever hundreds is multiplied by 52.
in any case knees over toes on quadricep
moves like squats and hack squats and
leg presses and lunges especially squats
is it okay
or is it a concern should you not do it
now here's the thing
especially
if you have lived in the pre knees over
toes guy on youtube era which say
anytime before like this year you've
probably instilled um probably heard a
ton especially for old timers at the gym
don't push your knees over your toes you
know when you get your first personal
trainer's license i think it says that
right right on the certificate and it's
bad and your knees you know they get an
ebola or whatever and you're gonna die
and that's supposed to be a bad thing
and
it turns out that's not actually very
valuable advice for quad training okay
however well here's why there's
something inherently injurious to the
knees
when you push your knees over your toes
this is not a thing
it does feel strange to do
mostly because pushing your knees over
your toes
by ankle mobility constraints requires
you to get onto your toes and thus off
of your heels
when you get off of your heels there is
a huge increase in the degree of
instability well every joint north of
the balls of your feet and particularly
at the knee so it feels weird and wobbly
and then pushing your knees first kind
of has this like mild shearing effect
you get used to doing it after like
three sessions but if you always
practice squatting sitting real far back
doing that knees over toes thing
especially if your heels lift feel
strange you can't produce a ton of force
you're like this is all wrong so the
grain of truth with don't let your knees
go over your toes
is that
yeah it makes the lift feel weird if
you're not used to it and it also makes
it unstable unless it actually prevents
your quads from producing a ton of force
especially if you're not very well
practiced at it which is why sissy
squats for example which is only
squatting off of your actual toes are
like a fine assistance exercise for some
lift and they're a decent hypertrophy
move like when you're tired at the end
of a workout but as a primary quad
builder they're usually not that great
because your quads refuse to produce a
crapload of tension mediated mostly
while actually at the spinal cord and at
the brain because they detect a lot of
instability not the quads themselves but
in general your whole body detects
instability so what ends up happening is
yeah knees over toes itself isn't
directly bad it's not going to hurt your
knees it does feel weird
but there is a grain of truth that it
might not be something
that you sort of catch into quickly and
it might feel off and it might not
produce a ton of force and it might
actually not get you great results
because of the fact almost exclusively
that you are on your toes and not on
your heels or rather your whole foot so
should you worry about your knees
crossing your toes the answer is no
you should be concerned not worried oh
what's going on here like
any time i hear worry i just
automatically my jewish worry side turns
on and of course with that comes the
voice so
anytime you let your knees pass over
your toes which you want to make sure to
do in most cases is have your whole foot
on the ground or on the hack squat
platform or whatever it is so that you
can push through your heels
through your mid foot and through your
toes and then if your knees come over
your toes you're gonna still be able to
generate a ton of quad tension stretch
the quad a bunch produce a ton of
hypertrophy and everything is super
super awesome so yes it's okay for your
knees to go over your toes in any case
whether or not your toes are only on the
ground or if your whole food is not
ground but it's probably more productive
in most cases to just make sure your
whole foot is on the platform or on the
ground and then having your toes go over
your knees is totally totally totally
totally fine
it's gonna feel weird if you're not used
to it if you come from a powerlifting
background or just been taught to sit
back ease into it slowly keep sitting
back a little bit and then sit a little
more forward more forward before and
after a while get the hang of it in
addition you might have to switch where
you put your feet you might have to turn
your feet out because
look calf mobility is actually one of
the huge limiting factors in your
ability to squat hack squat leg press
with proper back position and everything
like that because it's one of the
biggest limiting factors you may also
consider getting squat shoes in my view
if you claim to be an intelligent and
serious
uh pursuer of quad hypertrophy and you
don't have a pair of weight lifting
shoes you better have the best damn
ankle mobility i've ever seen in my life
if you don't get weightlifting shoes
what brand dr mike what's that demon in
my head any brand is fine doe wins from
china or like a dollar or some shit i
don't know they're like 50. they work
great it's a fucking shoe just make sure
it's solid and the heel feels like it's
not gonna bust open when you sit on it
it's good eyewear for those of you
asking the adidas ironwork ii i think it
was discontinued in like 2008 or
whatever my shoes are like
older than me or some shit so as long if
if you get weight lifting shoes it's
going to make a huge difference on your
quad training and here's the thing
weightlifting shoes your knees go way
over your toes no problem at all weight
lifters all the time they have super
healthy knees in most cases it's not a
problem just remember ease into it it's
going to feel weird try to make sure
most of your weight is spread over your
toes midfoot and heels and then you'll
be good to go and if you want to throw
in a few 60 squats in every now and
again i think that's totally cool i just
wouldn't rely on that exercise as a huge
compound quad builder because
due to its inherent instability you may
not get the quadriceps to really fire
off its biggest faster switch motor
units and thus get the best hypertrophy
folks i've been dr mike as usual see you
next week for the next weekly too