don't mail in your movements don't just
go for feel make oh my God my glutes are
burning H that's good enough yay let's
go get L
that hey folks Dr Mike here forance
periodization and today I have five
rules of glute training for you there
are a little bit less rules and more
like helpful hints to get your glutes
bigger which means more attention from
the boys and the girls and anyone who's
not in between those finite gender
categories everyone loves big glut and
if they don't well G wiiz they're really
missing out here's the thing rule number
one lunges are superior because lunges
allow you to stretch your glutes out a
ton and put a ton of force through them
it gives them a unique advantage that
exercises like squats in most cases and
even hip thrusts do not have that
stretch underload element is something
you really can't screw up with lunges as
long as you lunge deep and a big ticket
item two things for you of how to make
lunges even better first per my
colleague Jared feather put most of your
weight on the lead leg that's the one
with the stretched loot that's the one
that's going to fuck you up use your
back leg and lunges as more of a
stabilization mini helper not a prime
driver it's going to be tough when you
get close to failure try to do your best
with it and second what you can do and
this especially works well if you have
dumbbells or if you have a Smith machine
is front foot elevated lunges you take
your front foot you put it on like a
2-in stable platform your back foot goes
down on the ground your front glute
which is the thing that's getting
trained in lunges the most is now
getting stretched even more deeply
because you gently descend and gently
touch your knee to the ground and come
up oh my God it's going to burn your ass
up and I mean literally your ass and I
mean literally burn in the sense of
metabolic burn give that a shot some
people will write whole articles or make
whole videos or whole Instagram posts
about like lunges or this and that shut
up lunges are amazing don't shut up we
love you all the lunges are amazing
number two if you're going to do hip
thrusts they're a fine glute exercise I
would recommend doing them for High Reps
sets of 15 to 30 and a top hold a Peak
at the top of each hip thrust that holds
the weight in its maximum end of the sex
thrust position for one to two seconds
and then slowly control Ecentric come
back up and hold and then slowly control
just like that you can
100% do hip thrusts without those things
you could do them for lower reps you can
do them as pulse reps where you just
barely come up and come back down you
will end up having to use hundreds of
fucking pounds on the bar you're going
to be in the six plate hip thrust club
and chaseing the six plate hip thrust
Dragon I've actually seen numerous
people at the gym who could hip thrust
way more than me I can hip thrust like
one plate for a set of 15 or something
as I never practiced the shit and if I
practiced it maybe two plates for a set
of 15 after a while
properly done the thing is my glutes are
so big they have they they you guys ever
seen pictures of my backside in posing
trunks uh on Instagram and it's not
flexed it like my ass comes up and goes
down it goes out it's got its own like
shelf and shitload of glute Mass how
come I'm not that strong well I am
actually that strong but I'm doing the
shit right and I've seen people in the
gym who've done like literally I've
watched a girl do four plate hip thrusts
for sets of 10 and I look at her ass
bitch you would love to have my ass
instead talking about I invented the
fucking bubble but but on a serious note
where are the glutes well it turns out
this properly leveraged properly
improperly leveraged putting your feet
in the wrong position pulsing at the top
hip thrust to use the most weight is a
journey that ends in you're using a lot
of weight for very little benefit and
it's annoying you to slide eight plates
on the shit every time fuck that do it
properly if you're going to do it do it
for higher reps and it's way better that
way number three an excellent exercise
you can try is a hybrid between a
stiff-legged deadlift and a regular
deadlift it's a deficit conventional
deadlift with your arms just outside of
your legs and your legs are relatively
close together normal athletic STS are a
little bit in what you do is you start
it from the top like a stiff-legged
deadlift you push your butt back and you
bend your knees just enough so that the
hamstrings are not the limiting factor
you don't feel that pull of a
stiff-legged deadlift you're just bar L
enough of your knee is flexed so that
you're not in that pull and you go super
deep and you try to keep your back
arched and your chest up the entire time
you bend over really far often you'll
need a deficit pause at the bottom for a
second essentially the only prime mover
in that exercise is the glutes it's a
great exercise it's like a modified
hybrid def like a deadlift deadlift it
will mess your glutes up it's a great
exercise to try to do if you're into
Super setting some shit a really good
idea is to finish a set of walking
lunges come up to a barbell on a deficit
pick it up and start doing those kind of
glute deadlifts holy fucking shit you
will burn your glutes off your body
it'll be
amazing next rule number four is a
little counterintuitive if you do your
leg presses your hack squats your squats
your every other exercise for your quads
deep and strict and all the way down to
where you could still have good
technique your heels are still on the
ground your back is really tight if you
go deep glute involvement at a high
degree of depth is huge and glutes grow
a ton from that stretch under uh under
load what ends up happening is you can
get really big glutes just by training
quads properly it pains me to no fucking
end when I see girls especially that
want big ass glutes doing fucking quad
work halfway down bullshit squats the
leg presses like a little pulse reps
I've been training off on machines with
girls where the girls do more on the leg
press machine than me bitch have you
seen my fucking quads how the hell is
that possible well they do an eight thre
and then they have to do tons of more
volume on glutes and they do those wrong
too it's just a ton of work for very
little benefit here's the real deal if
you leg press hack squat squat all that
great quad stuff to a full range of
motion as full as you can do with good
technique your glutes pick up so much
hypertrophy from that you might have to
do a few sets of lunges and hip thrusts
twice a week and that's all your glutes
can even handle they'll be the biggest
they can be instead of doing a shitty
job training your quads and barely
training your glutes during do an
amazing job of training your quads and
your glutes will be halfway where you
want them to be just from that I can't
overemphasize the importance of that
rule rule number
five Focus like with every other
exercise when you do glute training on
getting close to failure and progressing
load with strict technique this is
something that was really kind of
pioneered not the concept but as applied
to glute training by the famous Mr the
glute guy Brett contras Brett took a
bunch of bikini girls and he was like
you're going to track your lifts and get
stronger over time in the compound
movements and they're like H but it's
hard he's like shut up and they're like
ah okay fine they did it and their
glutes exploded why because a lot and no
offense no offenses it's all me with
love a lot of what passes for glute
training with bikini athletes and girls
just wanting to have bigger glutes it's
really just kind of doing the Motions
like when you see like a girl doing the
assisted pull-up machine and she's on it
standing and she's pushing down with one
leg to do the one glute press what is
the Reps and reserve on that an infinity
and like you can't even lift your own
body weight up how can you do a lunge
when you need assistance to be able to
do a fucking glute press like this is
insane don't mail in your movements
don't just go for feel make oh my God my
glutes are burning H that's good enough
yay let's go get lates fuck
that what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now write your reps down do strict
technique and every week increase by a
rep or increase by five pounds and as
you get close to failure grit those
fucking teeth n don't actually grit them
because dentists say that's bad for your
teeth I guess do what it takes to
progress used to be able to Lunge with
good technique the 20s for set of 20 2
years later it should be the 30s of the
40s used to be able to do those glute
death lifts with 135 a year or two later
it should be 185 if you get stronger
progressively loaded you never have to
second guess yourself because the
results are clearly you can lift more
weight and at one point you want to look
and see how big your ass is and you'll
turn around and you'll hit some old lady
and knock her off the side of the road
and a bus comes just lady explodes in a
bunch of pieces it's okay she lived a
good life she was 97 she didn't want to
be around anyway last thought she had
was like Jesus
guys only someone with their massive
glutes would just hit me into the road
so I could fucking die boom and then it
happened God works in mysterious ways
you're going to have to live with the
rest of your life with the insane Guild
for having killed a person with your now
insanely muscular glutes but hey you
want to be a big glute star that's the
price you're going to have to learn to
pay folks thank you so much for tuning
in consider our members area just $5
more every month $5 more than zero
suppose YouTube is free and it always
will be we're never going to switch to
me only as far as I can tell we're going
to be putting on YouTube videos forever
they're going to stay free we got extra
ones that are nerdy and more technical
help you with coaching your clients if
you're a personal trainer we have those
in the members area and we have the team
full ROM Forum come join myself and a
few other folks in a great Community we
help each other we look over each
other's technique I answer a crapload of
questions every week get in there and uh
yeah show us your glutes why not see you
there