hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization cool old topic video
today time under tension is it the key
to growth or a pointless diversion
let's get pointlessly intellectual about
our leisure activity of weight training
love it a couple of things on the agenda
today first of all what is time and
attention
aka T UT who supports time under tension
and who detract from it how is it
related to hypertrophy does it have any
limits in its application how do we
approach it from the real world and what
does that imply for actual training so
first up what is T UT time under tension
acronym there and more precisely more
scientifically it's time spent
generating a certain average tension by
the target muscle in an exercise like so
if your biceps do this for like 30
seconds and the average tension here is
20 pounds then it's you know 20 pounds
on you no tension and the time is you
know whatever 30 seconds so 20 pounds of
tension 30 seconds of time time spent
generating tension or time under tension
right so in order to measure it directly
you need to know a couple things you'd
have to know load used that's easy you
know waste you're lifting but you don't
have the time your sets not between your
sets but within your sets that's a
little tough right you can sort of be
done if you have a training partner they
do a stopwatch but even if you run your
own stopwatch is kind of if you started
and then you go set up under the squat
rack you do stuff and then you stop and
then if you take any kind of breaks like
you sort of have to realign your
technique and wiggle out your hips and
then do more squats like that doesn't
really count does your quads want really
contracting because your knees are
locked out that gets a little bit more
complicated not as easy to do who
supports time under tension it's been in
and out of the spotlight in hypertrophy
circles bodybuilding as a training
method quite a lot so in T UT training
you do reps with a given load for a
given amount of time and you don't
necessarily count the reps you just
count the amount of time okay so you say
I did it
you know I lifted 60 pounds in this
exercise for a minute straight or
something like that
it's very possible right and in order
progress you might increase the load or
increase the time spent lifting it so
you do 60 pounds for a minute
next week I do 60 pounds for
in ten seconds or next week I do 65
pounds for the same minute or something
like that and a lot of body motors over
the years have supported the idea of 2ut
without even really counting time very
few people count the time a lot of times
when they're doing you know partial reps
or unique exercises which are really
very tough to track as far as loading
and progression they'll say well it's
all about time under tension who cares
about all this you know science shit
anyway or progression shit which a lot
of times means their range of motion
their cadence or their load is just
really unusual for hypertrophy training
so for example they're easily really
lightweight and someone's like why using
lightweight that doesn't work they say
well it's all our time and retention
right so I had a lot of time the tension
isn't a big deal because you know the
two factors carry off each other or say
you're not doing the full range of
motion they say well you know it's all
about time and attention anyway so even
if I do partials I still spend time
tensing that muscle same idea range
motion doesn't matter as much or at all
whatever they would say cadence it would
say like hey I use less weight today and
I did you know slowly Centrex and people
would be like well why using less weight
like while I do the slow eccentric so
it's more time and it's less weight so
it could be explained something like
that not entirely unreasonable so how is
time and attention actually related to
hypertrophy in the true sort of
empirical sense well fundamentally
muscle fibers grow from their own
imposition of tension onto all the
structures their generation of tension
is what grows them fundamentally mostly
right this leads them to activate right
the tension is created by their
activation their contraction and that
generates metabolites and gives them a
pump and all this stuff
everything from activation a contraction
of metabolites to the pump all leads to
growth so it's all really good things
so if sets are taken close to failure
the first cavity up there if the tension
is high the time is going to be short
and then the faster fibers get most of
the work sweet if you're doing lighter
weight trainings like 75% of on rmm is
the heavier stuff or above if you do
something like between 30 and 75 percent
one or a more close to a third percent
one around the tension is relatively low
but the time spent under it is high like
a set of pull downs of 30 reps takes way
longer than one for 10 and then it sort
of balances out and you get the same
amount of Herbert Rafi which is actually
corroborated by the direct studies that
high reps
perhaps get you roughly the same
hypertrophy so sort of good news here
and then if attention is much lower than
30% most of this lowered fibers get the
stimulus which they do grow but they're
the very small threshold motor unit so
they're very few fibers they're very
small slit or fibrous or even if they
grow it's not very notable and you don't
get optimal gains which is why I train
less than 30% even if it's a lot of time
it's not enough tension to meet that
minimum basic threshold of lots of
growth and doesn't happen because you
could say a potential not so genuine
critique of time under tension could be
like well you know marathon runners they
spend a load of time with a very little
tension should that balance out and
shouldn't they be jacked well the answer
is no because there could be some
minimum professional attention in fact
there is one that doesn't really
activate the faster fibers at all
probably doesn't lead to a whole lot of
growth so noted and you know because
when training close to failure if that's
taken as a reality like we say or again
everything goes close to failure then
time spent generating tension is really
what signals growth in that case T UT
your time under tension is central to
the growth process right so if we say
because it really is time just by
generating tension that does cause
growth so if we say something like TT
doesn't matter which some folks have
said before they're really just
fundamentally incorrect it matters at
the core it really does but there are
limits to how it matters and especially
if it's real-world applicable so what
are those limits
well tension first of all doesn't
specify a range of motion right if you
just do pure isometric and just push
against the bar super hard and then you
relax you know you generate a tension
for a certain amount of time she get a
lot of growth except pure isometrics
don't lead it nearly as much growth as
concentric and eccentric phase right so
that's a problem and these are the first
two points in related the second point
is tension doesn't specify contraction
type concentric eccentric and isometric
well if isometric only that really kind
of sucks and also range of motion by
itself like if you just do an isometric
you get a decent growth in that sort of
range but the best growth is if you go
all the way down and all the way up
right so someone could say oh well time
under tension is great and then do these
little bullshit half reps there's also
some not that great
right and if they do only con centric
and lift up and throw something down
lift the weight up with throw some you
know and say well I've got crazy time
under tension like yeah but you're
missing the eccentric attraction which
is really also super critical to
maximizing growth so all of a sudden we
have two points against it you can
justify what attention doesn't specify
ROM so you can really screw that up with
short ranges of motion or no range of
motion at all you can screw it up I'd
only doing isometric normally concentric
only and you miss out on the Centrex or
concentric sore whatever you're not
doing to gain the most size it doesn't
specify failure proximity so you could
you do you take your 15 or 20 RM weight
20 RM weight and you do sets of 10 with
it you do 5 sets of 10 it's a lot of
tension 20 around is decent 5 sets of 10
is good that's the same thing as like 2
and IOT's let's say you do 6 sets of 10
that's the same amount of time under
tension as 3 sets of 20 but 3 sets of 20
is super fucking close to failure it's
not even sure you can do it you might be
a 20 to 20 and 18 or something right but
if you stop at 10 every single time your
failure proximity is so low you're so
far away from failure that each of those
sets doesn't ever add up to those 3 sets
of 20 those six sets of 10 never do it
up and you get way lower hypertrophy
even though mathematically see what hold
on a second my time under tension was
literally identical I mean it's 60 total
reps right how the hell does that work
well because time and attraction has
these limits if the close to failure
condition isn't applied right and lastly
time is much tougher to measure in the
real world than number over reps can you
do squatching you twenty reps you know
you did 20 reps everybody can count I
hope right but like if you measure time
I mean again if you lock your knees out
or nod you have to set a time or every
time Jesus that's a lot of work where
reps might be able to do that for us
right so there's no stopping someone if
they really invest in tu t and they
think okay
tu T isn't the core of growth of limits
it is the way to train with no
exceptions they could end up doing super
short range of motion dumbbell presses
like sub maximally so they stop at n
even though they could have it on 20 and
they just do a lot of sets and they
could say like TT bro I'm growing like
crazy but they would be missing out on a
ton of results so TT is not enough
in the real world TT can't be great so
long as you a couple of things you do
concentric isometric and eccentric
phases and most of your training like
actual raps okay you do an appropriate
high or rather full range of motion
check two check marks you train it three
reps and reserve or fewer in most cases
sweet close to failure checking in and
you can gauge the amount of time
actually applied accurately in a real
world setting well we talked about uh
setting the alarm clock system or the
stopwatch is kind of annoying so what
solves all these problems and the time
component is counting normal reps
achieved and not worrying about time at
all because like if you're worried about
time under tension you need 15 reps last
week if you do 20 reps this week that's
for sure more time under tension unless
you'll wildly changing the cadence of
the reps but if you're wildly change the
cadence of the reps
you ain't faster now and sexually higher
forces more tension and that tends to
balance out so if you just train closer
to failure you progressively move up in
wraps or progressively move up and load
all of these problems are solved you're
still getting all the TT that you're
supposed to be you're checking every
time inner tension box but you're also
checking in boxes of making sure to get
the different muscle contraction types
concept Reiki centrosymmetric you're
making sure to get the full range of
motion and you're making sure to go
close to failure and by counting reps
you have a real good way to regulate how
much time under tension is actually
being applied on the real world right so
what are the implications here well sets
of good technique reps close to failure
accomplish pretty much everything we
need a lot of our training that's
awesome they work because they supply
time under tension but in the ways that
check all the other boxes of training
such as range of motions such as RER
such as a different concentric eccentric
isometric contraction types so on and so
forth so while the concept of training
time under tension is valid the
application of T UT is best done just by
standardizing your technique to a good
technique with a full range of motion
counting the load the reps and the sets
and automatically T UT results as being
a box that's checked but you do it in a
way that's very realistic very world
checks all the other boxers we
- from training so when someone asks you
on Instagram or something hey like what
do you think about T UT training you can
feel free to tell them that you use it
but you can also say the way I do it is
I do it the right way by just counting
the reps and properly executed sets
that's it folks hopefully you got
something out of that see you next time
for the next super informational video