we just wrapped up a study on the
effects of the stretch on muscle
building and as if you were wolf
coaching you get the scoop early it
turns out the stretch is more important
than we thought let me break down the
results and what they mean for your
training welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
contrary to popular belief actual
scientist actually involved in research
how crazy is that not one of those fake
medical doctors you hear so much about
now this study took place in Scandinavia
Northern newk and the lead researcher
was St Larson who took care of a lot of
data collection here's what we did to
maximize the accuracy of a results we
used a within participant design meaning
that each participant trained their left
and right limb differently now dear
viewer you might be asking why do that
well if you train your left and right
limb differently with different
interventions we're interested in seeing
whether one works better than the other
because you're the same person your
sleep stress environmental factors
lifestyle factors impact both limbs
similarly which means that we're really
comparing the effect of one intervention
to the other and not necessarily so much
did one group have better lifestyle
conditions than the other and that's
what's causing the results we're able to
wash out many of the potential
confounders essentially and so we used a
within subject design where participants
trained one leg one way the other leg
the other way one arm one way the other
arm the other way and specifically we
looked at three different research
questions in three different muscle
groups so there's a lot to unpack here
first let's start with the quads in the
leg extension exercise participants
performed unilateral or single leg leg
extensions with one of their legs they
perform them with 90° of hip flexion
with the other leg leg extensions were
performed with 40° of hip flexion so
your hips more extended why did we do
this well there are four muscles within
your quads three of them the vasti
muscles simply perform knee extension so
no matter what the hip positioning is it
shouldn't impact their growth however
the fourth muscle the rectus femoris is
also a Hip Flex
so how your hips are positioned during
the leg extension can actually impact
the length of the Reus femoris and so in
the condition performing leg extensions
with 40° of hip flexion the Reus femoris
was more stretched than it was during
the condition with 90° of hip flexion so
essentially we're comparing doing leg
extension with the rectus femoris more
stretched versus more shortened we
measured vasus lateralis and rectus fous
growth bya ultrasound at two different
sites one more proximal and one more
distal in this context more proximal
means closer to the hip and more distal
closer to the knee participants
performed leg extensions from 110° of
knee flexion to 0 degrees of knee
flexion we took measurements of muscle
size several times before the study and
several times after the study to get a
more accurate estimate of what true
muscle size was as far as analysis of
results went we adopted a beijan
framework which is a different type of
analysis essentially allowing us to make
slightly more intuitive inferences
regarding the results or more intuitive
conclusions before we go into the
results let me remind you because the
vast lateralis doesn't insert the hip
the hip positioning shouldn't really
cause differences in hypertrophy however
for The Reckless femoris if the stretch
is important we should see more
hypertrophy in the condition that
stretch the rectus foror more first
let's break down the vastest lateralis
results in essence we saw moderate
evidence in favor of the null hypothesis
or to put it simply we saw that there
were no real differences in terms of
growth between the two conditions this
applied to both the proximal sight
closer to the hip and the more distal
sight closer to the knee for the vastest
lateralis however when it came to the
rectus femoris where in one condition it
was being stretched more and in the
other less we saw pretty remarkable
differences in terms of hypertrophy at
the more distal side we saw 50% more
growth when doing leg extensions with
the hips more extended compared to more
flexed at the proximal slide we saw
170% more growth when doing leg
extensions with rectus femoris more
stretched compared to less stretched and
because we used the beian frame loock we
could also calculate the probability
that there wasn't effect in favor of
lengthened training being better than
shortened training for the rectus foror
H and that probability was over
99.9% so overwhelmingly likely there is
an effect here causing more hypertrophy
the takea away from these results is
that one lengthening the rectus for
moris more does cause substantially more
growth between 50 to 170% more growth
depending on site with a V SL Ross on
the other hand there were no differences
here's how this should inform your
training first good leg extension
machines are better better than bad leg
extension machines and a good leg
extension machine allows you to extend
your hips put the seat all the way back
and extend your hips almost be lying
down and two allows you to get a deeper
stretch at the bottom if all your leg
extension machine does is allow you to
get to 90° of knee flexion it's not a
great machine for hypertrophy another
likely takeaway is that squats and
reverse Nordic curls are probably better
exercises for hypertrophy compared to
the leg extension in the squat and
reverse Nordic curl you're able to fully
extend the hips even further lengthening
the rectus femoris and if this stud is
anything to go by extending your hips
more further lengthening the rectus
femoris seems to be beneficial for
hypertrophy more of a stretch is
beneficial and we do actually have one
study on the reverse ntic curl finding
substantial hypertrophy after performing
it so at the very least there is
evidence for the reverse n curl being
effective and there's a very strong
rationale with this study that doing
reverse Nordic curls likely causes more
hypertrophy in my opinion than leg
extensions with that being said one
question that does remain here is is
even more hip extension preferable
because while we do see that going from
90 to 40° caused more wam hypertrophy by
quite a bit it is somewhat unclear
whether fully extending the hips would
cause even more my hunch is it would but
that remains a somewhat unanswered
question the second muscle group we
looked at was the calves and in this
case we compared doing standing calf
raes on a Smith machine with one leg in
two conditions in condition one
participants simply performed unilateral
standing Cal phases on the Smith machine
until they couldn't get another full rep
get that Peak squeeze at the very top in
the other condition they continued past
this point doing partial repetitions in
the lengthened position until they
either reached volitional failure where
they didn't want to keep going
essentially or when they simply couldn't
lift up from that deep deep stretch at
the very bottom anymore that Peak dorsy
flexion simply put this study was
designed to ask the question of does
doing lengthen partials Past full range
of motion failure as a way to extend the
set cause more growth compared to just
ending the set when you can't get a full
range of motion rep anymore in an
exercise that is relatively short and
biased the hardest point of the calf
raay and the place where you fail first
is in that shortened position so in a
movement like that does going past
failure and just pumping out some length
and partials cause more hypertrophy
notably this is the first study looking
at this idea we have plenty of studies
comparing lengthen partials to shorten
partials lengthened partials to a four
range of motion etc etc but this is the
first study that I actually looked at
doing length and partials after 4 range
of Mo motion failure and how that
impacts hypertrophy many participants
found getting to True failure when they
couldn't get out of that deep stretch
position at all anymore very difficult
which is why we opted to allow
participants to either end the set when
they reached volitional failure or when
they truly couldn't plan to flex their
ankle anymore out of that deep stretch
in this case we only measured
hypertrophy of the calf muscle at One S
in the gastrus and specifically we saw
50% more hypertrophy when doing those
partials after failure compared to just
doing full range of motion and in basan
terms it was described as very strong
evidence that there was an effect in
favor of lengthened training over
shortened training the take away from
this part of the study was that doing
lengthen partials after failure in a
shortened biased movement seems to be
pretty effective for hypertrophy keep in
mind this was done in the Cavs and it's
somewhat unclear how this generalizes to
the rest of the body however on
principle this means that whenever
you're doing any back training or
dumbbell lad raises for example doing
partials after you can get another full
rep might be beneficial for hypertrophy
and this raises two questions and I
think have somewhat of an answer to them
but it does remain a somewhat open
question one was it simply the fact that
participants went past failure that
caused more hypertrophy or two was it
the fact that it was lengthen partials
I'm inclin to say it's a bit of both we
have pretty compelling evidence at this
point that focusing on the stretch is a
good thing for hypertrophy so if you
going past failure on a short and biased
movement allows you to get more
lengthened partials in and more
stretched work in that is a good thing
for hypertrophy however we also have
metanalysis by Robinson and colleagues
showing that the closer you take a set
to failure the more hypertrophy that set
causes and so with some speculation it
would make some sense that going past
failure would increase the stimulus even
more but potentially at the expense of
even more fatigue and finally we have a
part of the study on bicep curls once
again participants perform training for
their left and right arm differently
with one arm they simply performed cable
curls with their shoulder by their side
with the other arm they actually went
past neutral hyperextending their
shoulder getting more of a stretch in
both heads of the biceps in both
conditions the cable was set up to be
orthogonal to the line of pull that is
to say maximize the resistance at the
fully stretched position so for both
conditions the exercise was set up to be
hardest in the relatively stretched
position they measured hypertrophy of
the biceps Breaky at two sides one more
proximal one more distal essentially
this study was trying to answer the
question of in a movement that is
already quite challenging in a
relatively lengthen position thus going
from a decent stretch with your arm by
your side to a deep maximum stretch with
your arm behind you increase hypertrophy
to make it long story short no it was
pretty unclear that there were any major
differences between groups if you look
very closely you might say that there
was very slightly more growth in the
proximal area of the biceps when doing
the curl with your arm by your side in a
more shortened position and very
slightly more distal hypertrophy when
doing the curl with your arm behind you
in the more lengthen position but
probobly speaking there were minimal
differences if any and the probability
that both of these measurements were in
favor of the length in group was around
5% and the probability that both of
these measurements were in favor of the
shortened group was about 177% and in
general the analysis found that these
results were in favor of the null
hypothesis if anything they're not
really being a difference here so what
this suggests is that if a movement is
already hardest in the stretch position
and already has a decent stretch going
from that to getting the maximum stretch
in a muscle may not further increase
hypertrophy it also potentially suggests
that having a lot of tension in that
stretched position so essentially having
the movement be most difficult in that
stretch is more important than just pure
muscling and that's in line with a
previous study by zabal cordan
colleagues where they compared the
incline curl to the preacher curl in the
preacher curl the resistance is greatest
near the bottom or the fully stretched
position of the movement but because the
arm is in front of you the biceps aren't
quite as lengthened as they would be
during an incline curl however the
incline C has the opposite problem where
the resistance curve is hardest near the
top or the shorten part of the movement
and this study found the most favorable
muscle growth from the pre-trial the
movement where tension was largest in
the stretch position and so when given
the choice having a movement that is
difficult in the stretch position might
be more important for hypertrophy than
just having a movement that stretches
the muscle a lot but ideally you would
probably have both so let me summarize
the research question in each part of
this study the three parts and give you
the answer first in the quads and the
leg extension does lengthening a muscle
all being equal cause more hypertrophy
yes it seems to be the case in the case
of the light extension and the rectus
phorus as it relates to hit angle second
in the case of the Cavs does doing
lengthen partials Past full range of
motion failure increase hypertrophy in a
shortened biased movement in the calf
specifically yes so that means that on
movements that are shorten biased you
might be better off doing partials after
failure or doing partials in general and
finally if a movement is already quite
length and biased in terms of where it's
most challenging does stretching the
muscle out even more past just a decent
stretch cause more hypertrophy in the
biceps in the case of the cable curl no
it doesn't seem to be the case and so
the Practical takeaways are one from the
leg extension study training a muscle in
its more stretch position is better for
hypertrophy in a likelihood and this
applies to the leg extension use better
leg extension machines when you can and
potentially use the squat or the
reverse Nordic curl over the leg
extension as they allow you to get a
deeper stretch in your rectus femoris
two when it comes to the Cal
consider doing some partials after
failure in the lengthen position to
increase hypertrophy especially on
movements that are most difficult in
that shorten position that will likely
cause more hypertrophy in certain
exercise choices you have to make a
decision between getting more of a
stretch or having more tension in a
lengthen position for example a preacher
curl versus an incline curl when given
this choice and you don't have any other
choices I would go for the one that
places more tension in the somewhat
stretched position overp picking the one
that just prioritizes muscle length at
the expense of tension and the final
takeaway is that we see quite a bit more
hypertrophy across several studies now
when focusing on the stretch in this
case we saw between 50 to 170% of more
hypertrophy in the case of the Cals and
quads and there are several studies Now
by casano and colleagues for example by
Pedrosa and colleagues and the recent
conference abstract by Mya and
colleagues often finding like 50 to 100%
more hypertrophy or essentially up to
twice as much hypertrophy from doing
length and partials versus full range of
motion and so in light of This research
also finding between 50% and 170% more
hypertrophy this really suggests there's
something to be had with the lengthen
position if you're not somewhat focusing
on the length and position for
hypertrophy at this point you're likely
missing out on hypertrophy and I want to
give one final takeaway from this
research and other research I've
recently looked at I have a whole
article on this topic coming out with
stby science.com soon so keep an eye out
but I don't think that lengthen training
like for example lengthen partials
benefit you through stretch mediated
hypertrophy as stretch mediated
hypertrophy occurs from stretching your
muscle to its maximum length and if
anything tension appears to be more
important than just purely maximizing
muscle length but that is not the same
as stretchmate hypertrophy that is the
video breaking down this recent monster
study that we conducted on the length
and position for hypertrophy if you like
the video please comment like subscribe
letting me know what else you want to
see me breakdown and here comes a plug
we are actually releasing a training app
that has been years in development that
is the most evidence-based and to be
honest the best training app out there
why is it the best well we actually take
results from the evidence and directly
incorporate it into how the app works
what training it's giving you is
directly evidence-based for example
based on this recent research around a
lengthen position we made sure that the
app gives you exercises that focuses on
the stretch position and in fact the app
actually ranks exercises for you based
on how effective they are based on the
evidence we have and when more and more
of this evidence came out over the the
past few years suggesting that lengthen
position is really important for
hypertrophy we actually modified how the
app works so when you use myapt you can
be pretty sure that the training you're
getting is Cutting Edge as far as the
science is concerned we've been working
for years on this and we're aiming to
make this like an evidence-based
highlevel coach in your pocket at a
fraction of the price of actual coaching
the app gives you individualized muscle
growth programs that get better week
upon week as you give it feedback the
app is coming out within the next few
months so if you're interested in being
notified when it does come out check out
myod app.com and sign up to be notified
via email when we release it by signing
up early you'll be able to log in a
lower price than anyone else in the
meantime if you'd like me to coach you
check out the link above and we can
become coaching client until the next
video have a great day and I'll see you
next time peace