what are length and partials length and
partials or half reps in the bottom half
or the first half of a movement in the
part of the movement where your muscle
is most lengthened to break it down
think about each exercise in a lifting
and lowering phase if you think about it
this way the first half of the lifting
phase will be the length and partial
half why would you use length and
partials over a full range of motion
well across five studies now four have
shown better muscle growth from length
and partials versus using a full range
of motion alternatively if you don't
want to length and partials for some
reason there are other tools you can use
for example control the Ecentric more in
that stretch position pause in that
stretch position pick exercises that are
harder in that stretch position like for
example a dumbbell pullover over a cable
pullover finally you can use either
integrated partials where you do a set
with both lengthen partials and full
range of motion or you can use
lengthened super sets a technique in
which you continue and extend the set
just doing lengthen partials all of
these are tools that accomplish the same
goal make the average muscle length of a
given set longer and this in all
likelihood will lead to more muscle
growth