welcome back soon to be Dr mil wolf here
with wolf coaching hope you're all doing
well today we're reviewing a gentleman's
training routine by the name of Bradley
Martin I actually used to view and watch
Bradley Martin a few years ago when I
was starting to study Sports Science
since then as you might expect I've
watched him a lot less especially as
he's become a bit more of an influencer
it's been a while since I looked at this
stuff however I see that he's released a
very popular biceps and triceps full arm
routine and I just wanted to give it a
review and see hey from a sports sence
perspective is it any good so let's jump
into it what's going on guys Bradley
It's Bradley I'm giving you guys of
course of course what day would be
complete without arm day okay so
everyday is arm day but today was
actually arm day so I'm give you guys a
different routine oh God Is this where
the everyday's arm Day meme came from uh
it's that segment of lifting culture
there's certain niches or segments of
lifting
culture that are just a bit much and
this is one of them tricep everything is
back and forth back and forth not all
super sets but everything is bicep and
tricep so this the kind of kind of
scheme we're going with here started
with the close grip first off before we
go any further I just want to say super
setting biceps and triceps actually a
pretty good idea super setting different
muscle groups that are not overlapping
and specifically muscle groups that are
antagonistic which are called antagonist
paired super sets are actually a pretty
good idea like you generally save about
50% of the time you would take usually
and you get the same hypertrophy you can
check out this video here for more
information on how that works but it's a
very good time efficient option if
you're hitting two muscle groups that
are not too systemically fatiguing like
if you're doing squats and rdls that's
going to be quite challenging cuz even
putting aside that they both use a
glutes both of those are very
systemically fatiguing exercises but if
you're talking about isolation exercises
for the biceps and the triceps super
setting the two can be a very time
efficient option so so far phenomenal
barbell bench and I did this in a way
where I'm not bringing it all the way
down to my chest because the point is
I'm trying to keep the tension on the
tricep rather than my chest so as I
further down I noticed I'll start to
feel the what the [ __ ] is that look at
his [ __ ] technique bro please just go
all the way down we have pretty
compelling research at this point that
getting a lengthened position into your
exercise using a full range of motion or
doing length and partials is actually
very productive for muscle growth please
for the love of God just go all the way
down get a deep stretch in your triceps
and I can not guarantee but I can make a
very confident bet here that your
triceps will grow more than if you kept
constant tension on the triceps there's
a video on constant tension right here
it's not all that stretching the chest
and I'll get more contraction through
out there so you guys can tell in this
video I'm coming yes halfway down is
precisely the prop ° stop right there
and then press out with the tricep I'm
trying to keep the very strong though
very strong indidual on the tricep okay
pause for a second and squeeze it out I
worked into about 315 felt good it's my
first time doing this in a long time so
that was cool um for this exercise I'm
doing four sets four sets of 8 10 and
I'm super nothing wrong with that you
guys oh no why did he have to use the
banded bicep curl he was already [ __ ]
it up with the [ __ ] not getting a
full stretch on the triceps in the close
C bench yes he's very strong very
handsome too but why now the banded
bicep curl the banded bicep curl is one
of your probably worst options for bicep
growth unless you only have bands
there's much better options you could do
a preacher curl where there's plenty of
tension at the bottom you could do a
behind the back cable curl where you get
plenty of tension in that lengthen
position for the biceps we have several
studies on the biceps looking at more
lengthened training versus more
shortened training and we can pretty
confidently say at this point that doing
banet curls for bicep growth that ain't
it that's not what you want to do for
maximizing growth so I like the super
set idea so far I don't like the
execution on either the closer bench and
I don't like the exercise choice on the
Bandit curl since it's these are four
sets for the tricep I'm just doing four
sets complete failure with the Bandit
curl so I'm just going just a failure
every set okay and then going right back
to the tricep resting about 2 minutes
and getting back to it okay so first of
all going to failure on the abandoned
bicep curl not a terrible thing I think
for muscle growth that's actually a
decent thing resting about 2 minutes
between sets is probably fine generally
for more compound exercises like the
close grip bench a bit more than 2
minutes can be fine but because he's
only super setting it with a curl 2
minutes between the curl and the bench
and then between the bench and the curl
pretty good idea we do have evidence
that longer rest times are better but if
you're if you're resting in total over 4
minutes between sets of bench for
example you're doing a pretty good job
so as far as rest times go really good
as far as training to failure pretty
good idea as well I would generally
recommend keeping some reps in the tank
on the first couple sets just because
otherwise the rest of your session takes
a big hit training to failure is quite
fatiguing and there is an impact of
volume load on overall hypertrophy or
how much weight are you able to lift for
how many sets for how many reps you can
see in this video here but overall not
terrible advice I like it uh this is
like different you guys may have never
even seen this before but uh I actually
thought of it
today h he thought of it today that is
very funny so we're doing the on the low
row like a low cable roll I'm not sure
was fun and what I did was I set up a a
hex bar and I'm focusing on kind of like
like you guys would do like a isolation
curl where you're putting your weight
like your elbows on a bench but I'm
putting my elbows you guys can see like
on my knees so I'm locking my elbows
against my knees so you guys see that
full the full stretch all the way
complete contraction but I'm not letting
my elbows come off my knee so you guys
have seen the video um kind of keep your
chest up Let the weight go all the way
out all the way back in but don't let
the I'm just not really sure what this
accomplishes versus a preach curl it
just seems like a very convoluted wave
doing a curl right it's less stable than
a preach Cur which is not very good for
muscle growth it does have a lot of
tension at the bottom you can see the
cable is horizontal at the bottom which
means the most tension and then it kind
of angles up which means it gets easier
as he shortens the biceps and that's
probably good thing but he is also
getting some low back fatigue right it's
kind of like when you're doing a cable
row where when you unrack the weight and
you have to hold it steady while you're
rowing you are getting some lower back
fatigue and some involvement of the
gluten hamstrings just to stabilize the
load now for a bicep exercise I'm not
sure it's really warranted to have that
sort of involvement and just be more
fatiguing and more difficult to
coordinate overall I would rather he do
something like a preach curl but overall
it's not terrible elbows rise up off the
knees so you keep touching on the bicep
all right so for this exercise again
this weird notion of keeping tension on
the biceps uh not like the previous one
these are we're doing five sets 10 to 12
reps each set um following this exercise
uh probably one of my personal favorite
tricep exercises for strength for size
um is the seated like in a military seat
part of my little so I like to sit down
I feel like I get more focus on the
tricep so this is a lot of sets I from
what I've seen on either the cable curl
or these o extensions he's not really
going very close to failure I think he
could do with lowering the number of
sets a little bit and going a bit closer
to failure especially on those last few
sets with that being said as far as the
exercise Choice goes big thumbs up I
like it putting the shoulder in an
overhead position or in a fully flexed
position allows the triceps long head to
be lengthened more and length thing the
triceps under load is a very good way of
going them so when you're considering
your tricep choices right a push down is
probably your least beneficial option a
skull crusher is kind of your second
best option and then finally overhead
extensions are probably your best option
for tricep growth on average just
because they allow you to lengthen the
long head a little bit more as far as
this execution goes in this video it's
pretty decent I would say if you could
get all the way down that might be
better he's not getting a full full
stretch if you could pause at the bottom
that'd be awesome and finally he is
letting his elbows come out and down a
little bit which turns it into a bit
more of an overhead press versus more of
a strict tricep isolation exercise I do
think with overhead extensions you're
best off keeping your elbows pointing at
the ceiling that's a really good cue of
thinking about while you're doing your
overhead extension because it allows you
to keep your shoulder fully overhead and
maximize the stretch on the long head of
the triceps the guys in bar were making
fun of me they're like how' your sweat
come out like evenly but anyways bar man
like Bradley do be swe CS I respect
think about keeping the elbows at the
side keeping the hands down just outside
of my my hips my quads in this case um
and I'm just focusing on keeping my
glutes nice and tight right as I start
the motion so I'm nice and stiff nice
and stiff bring it all the way through
and this one I'm doing probably like cuz
I went a little bit heavier I normally
wouldn't do this man like Bradley really
just wanted to flex on us with the 135
curl for sets I respect it we've all
been there technique is pretty decent
there is definitely some body English
involved I would say if you could cut
that down and drop the weight as he
mentions probably better he's actually
doing some half reps at the bottom for
certain reps which is slightly better
for growth if you look at this video
here there's some evidence around length
and partials being good for hypertrophy
so there's some point to that overall
not terrible not not the best right like
some body English and not the best
exercise overall because it doesn't
challenge that bottom position very well
something like a preach curl or like a
behind the back cable curl would be
slightly better
but it's not the the worst and the form
is not terrible so I respect it cl to 10
much better on this one and then I just
did a burnout these so these two
exercises at the end here are super set
I did a burnout these tricep presses
right so why is he mentioning that the
last two exercises are super seted like
the previous four weren't they've all
been super sets Bradley why are you
specifying this again and what I'm
thinking about is I'm thinking about
keeping my wrist uh above the Barb so
when I'm coming in I'm trying not to let
my wrist Bend down I'm trying to keep my
wrist above and I'm trying to keep the
pressure on my tricep all the way
throughout so I do think this exercise
is a decent option overall especially if
you don't have much equipment I've
actually done these off a bathroom sink
for example during Co lockdowns R when I
didn't have any equipment and they can
be pretty effective right like they're a
good minimum equipment score Crusher
type tricep exercise I do think the way
he's performing them here is not ideal
first of all he's not getting a full
stretch second of all I would keep the
elbows in to maximize elbow flexion
range of motion without involving the
shoulder very much or the chest but
overall it's not terrible I will say if
you have access to a gym I would
typically recommend a dumbbell School
Crusher over this dumbbells for school
Crushers are a great option for many
things actually not just a school
Crusher because they're a lot more time
efficient right with a barbell you have
to load it up you have to load the exact
weight you need Etc where of thumb Bells
you can literally just run the rack do
one set of dumbbells warm up second set
of dumbells warm up throw set D Bells do
your walking set it took you next to no
time to set up set up the equipment set
up the exercise and get started so i'
say generally I would recommend
something like dumbbells or an easy bar
or a barbell for school Crushers over
something like this especially because
as he mentioned it does double as a Core
workout which isn't really a good thing
because then you can be limited by
stability and by your core strength
rather than your trips and the goal here
is to train your triceps if I understand
correctly every day is arm day not
everyday is core day so higher but you
can set up even lower where the barbell
is but the lower you put it the more you
get into like that that horizontal
motion of your not horizontal motion but
the horizontal position of your body and
the lower you get the more uh core
involvement it it involves so um it's a
cool exercise great for the triceps to
finish it out good contraction just body
weight um you guys could put bands and
you know down to some dumbells if you
want to but that's like getting really
out of control so um that's it that's a
burnout I'm not sure why he keeps saying
what burnout I'm not sure he knows what
it means because in this case for the
biceps he's doing sets of 5 to 10
usually when people say burnout they
mean like oh you know you're doing
higher reps especially close to failure
to finish the session off not that
there's anything magical about that
because there ISM it can be a nice fun
way to finish a session and get a nice
pump but he keeps saying it as though
it's magical and it's a bit weird it's
classic like bodybuilder addiction to
constant tension training and burnout
training like that's anything magical
but otherwise not bad [ __ ] NAD man NAD
you know okay you know what happened to
me and N so we were we were like out
right and uh like I
tripped what is going on here yeah like
he fell down I was like [ __ ] it this is
my opportunity I started kicking him is
this the personality segment of the
video in barbell or anywhere like in
life the music is way too loud the
microphone quality is rough all right
Bradley Martin's arm day reviewed if I
had to give it a score I could have saw
it like 7 out of 10 it's not perfect
there's some flaws right with a bandit
curl with the execution on the close
group bench but there are some good
things about it too there's the super
sets there's generally training pretty
close to failure a lot of it I [ __ ] with
he even there some overhead extensions
you know so I got to respect that he's
also very strong and quite handsome if I
don't say so myself anyways that's the
video 7 out of 10 for badley Martin if
you like the video please comment like
subscribe if there's anything else you
want to see anyone else you want to see
me critique or anyone else's training
advice you want me to break down give it
a comment down below let me know who you
want to see and I'll see you guys my
viewers in that next one
peace fun fact I've actually been told
quite a few times especially before The
Bard here that I look like Bradley
Martin so take that as you will we're
basically the same person he just lives
a continent way no big deal overseas
across the
pond peace