if you want to go vegan it should
probably be for ethical reasons that's
easily the strongest argument for
veganism if you want a few more
Arguments for veganism and some against
take a look at a video we have it's like
10 reasons to go vegan or something like
that uh we made it on on this channel a
few months ago on YouTube it's pretty
popular it goes through like you know
like it's a really in-depth video it's
like an hour it's really super minute
philosophical points I think towards the
end you kind of get the idea that like
most of us could probably eat fewer
animals that like think a lot have
feelings like pigs and cows it sucks to
kill them so if you want to go more
vegan that's totally fine if you want to
go completely then yes totally fine but
it shouldn't be for your health because
veganism is not a guarantee of health or
even a marginal increase in health it
should be for things like ethics right