life is a party food okay what's going
on everyone I'm here at crunch fitness
Bloomingdale Florida living there
Florida and we have a lot to say I'm
about to hit a lot of long drive should
we come indoors overall you don't drill
for a while okay so I'm going to hit a
workout with Josh Bogle aka Vogel itis
NK half horse okay you know why you
would that faked and we're going to hit
a chest workout so Josh planned out
basically the whole thing I'm just here
taking some pre workout in the car we
got here early so I've got high volume
and I've also got prolific so I actually
find that the raspberry lemonade flavor
mixes really well with the cotton candy
flavor I'm gonna sip on this wait for
Josh to roll up and then we're going to
hit the chest workout are you getting it
out yeah get somebody out yes let me get
that door for you
you see me
I don't react yeah
working with incline barbell press one
thing I notice that you're doing the
comfort I know it's probably really
stupid why it's just comfortable for me
I'm going to do the full trip in that
case we're going to work up soon and set
up six reps let's give er Tosca heaviest
ago to be never so eccentric let's pause
and we're gonna be trading in our half
the brain stone just to make it awfully
doesn't trust us also Phil I can't I
have to stop about an inch above this is
not really trusting so much
well we're lower the weight we're not
just thinking let's say we're trying to
have a warm actually thing is if I'm
doing it backwards your son and when I'm
right here actually thinking about if
I'm doing a row I'm actually trying to
pull my scapula together and really pull
the weights down routing this loading
[Music]
so we just finished up with a top set
sided to 25 and 50 45 for kicks
dr. abducted to 95 for six upset now
we're going to drop back and you said
the back off or doing 10 reps 125 the
record he has the best videographer in
heaven
[Music]
next we're going to do with a flat
dumbbell press
three much motor focus here is we're
keeping your staff and retracted we're
not allowing our establish the first
rack like that the latter of shoulders
coming to the limit we're trying to keep
the most muscles as you can on the just
get your for the switch box very
powerless be style we're going to be
here for your lower tooth up those cells
the points where it's comfortable I
don't want you to force it down to
position where this needs to be concerts
like seconds press back up little boy
pulley walking out and then go right
back down we're thinking about driving
our bicep and was like this rather than
just pressing up our intensity bus up
across the chest
[Music]
[Music]
 you
all right
[Music]
there anything in particular you're
going to focus on with the cable so with
the cable Clyde I'm not talking the way
up here like this because a lot of times
of people if you're going to get a lot
more over the hills longest have been
much higher who's going to be going
firstly like this little kids ago people
keep doing it we're going to make it
primarily our testing with this sign up
where the cable for the horizontal soup
is the chest so when I pull this going
to be coming across like that I'm
talking about driving my bicep to my
stuff right there my tongue very
contracted anymore agreement my chunk
isn't moving at all I'm doing anything
in the shoulder she may be fierce as you
can afford I'm going to start by having
my scapula retraction
that's the other going to think about
throwing in my future
we'll hold for a second of these please
go back then again I want this
awesome hold with party
[Music]
oh my I'm echoes oh me oh my uh necklace
dimensions um applause actually using a
higher in Clinton I normally would for a
press for making sure about the Dumbo
are staying in minuses upper PEC fibers
so I'm not bringing it down there doing
something look like that if things right
up off in that position let me get two
points which difficult people like eight
or nine out of ten so you do with regard
to change into a press valve position
lower it and actually talk our arm kind
of excited and then from there we could
do a chart with them to finish not
because of this is burning out ahead
enough
[Music]
I'm a ghost girl Oh
[Music]
[Music]
yo
[Music]
so right here what we're doing is we're
holding in a stretch positions in the
weighted throat there's actually some
research showing that weighted
stretching can actually cause
hyperplasia so that's pretty much the
idea behind it it's not proven but toxic
and stuff going on like a worm and your
good rep hey what is going on one salon
here at University of South Florida has
some unique and performance enhancement
labs and we just collected some data for
Stephanies science experiments where she
did the ten thousand calorie challenge
got her body composition tested
beforehand and I got to test it again
after the results are really interesting
about psi her channel if you guys like
this video please don't forget to like
the video I am running a sale on my
tests I personally program for next
couple of days so if you wanted to get
it but a little bit some crises now you
can get it for 50% off it'll put a link
to that right over here this is
basically a chest training menu with 21
pages full with scientific references it
comes with that eight week training
program and you'll also get access to
panic
the videos from the explaining how to do
all the exercises in the programs if
you'd like to check that out the links
over here is also in the description
below also I've got all of Josh's stuff
links in the description thank you guys
once again so much for watching view the
next video