dieting for fat loss is tough it's
really tough really tough on the Fly
especially dealing with Cravings your
kids are yelling at you you're at a
Starbucks you want to make the right
choice there's cookies your kids are
eating them boom cookies Down the Hatch
and the whole diet is down the drain
here is the big tip choose for most of
your meals two to four basic proteins
basic veggies grains and or fruits and
healthy fats so I usually have a couple
of choices and you mix and match flavor
the meals and prepare them in bulk drop
them into the fridge or the freezer that
means all the macro calculations you
just don't have to do on the fly anymore
you're not at that restaurant thinking
oh crap what do I order off this menu
you're at your office at work and you
open up Tupperware and you're like ta-da
diet successes easy as one two three