hey guys so Robin and I made it back
from the Arnold Classic I went for a
quick workout last night just to do some
back work after meeting Doug Miller I
realized that that's something I need to
bring up even more than I had originally
thought so I did a quick back workout
last night today I'm going to be doing a
squat workout followed by some leg press
followed by some bench press for six
sets of three e 2.5% of my 1 rep max and
then I'm going to finish off with some
close grip bench and some hip abduction
is I haven't been to this gym in about
two years so I'm not completely sure
what they have in terms of machines and
stuff I don't really remember but anyway
stay tuned and I'm about to hit that
workout yeah hey guys so this was a
workout from just over a week ago now
and it was towards the end of an
accumulation phase we called it the
don't call it a comeback phase between
Jason and I and it's a concurrent
powerlifting and bodybuilding phase with
slightly more focus on the powerless
sense I'm just getting back into the
powerlifting side of things again now
that my back feels a lot better feels
completely better actually and I've
decided that I'm going to tentatively
aim for my first powerlifting meet of
this year at the end of May and that
will be the Nova Scotia provincials here
in Halifax were just outside of Halifax
so I kicked off this workout with
high bar squats I've been doing all my
squats high bar it just feels a lot
better for me and as the meat gets
closer I'll make the transition into low
bar and so I did five sets of ten with
65% which with an input of 455 came out
to be 295 pounds it felt too easy so I
ended up jacking it up to 305 I believe
for my top three or four sets and as you
can see the weight is moving that was my
last rep of my last set and the weight
is moving pretty smoothly nothing too
challenging in terms of actually
completing the lips but as you can see
I'm pretty up Brett look easy show him
an empire rep work especially on squats
is challenging in that regard but that's
all the part of developing you know a
massive work capacity that in the coming
phases we're going to be sort of
transmute into maximal strength
adaptations and so then after the squat
I moved on to the leg press and this is
forming part of the hypertrophic sort of
goals that I have of this phase and so
here what I did was a controlled two to
three second eccentric with a slight
pause at the bottom and I did something
like four sets of eight here to an hour
PE of eight or nine and I think that
this is my first set here I may not have
actually even counted this one because
the weight was a little bit low I think
I had four or five plates on a side I
ended up finishing up with I think six
or seven plates 205
and where I take a narrower stance on my
squats when I get on the leg press I
externally rotate a little bit more and
take a bit of a wider stance just to you
know hit everything from a slightly
different position so then after that
I'm moved on to bench press and this was
actually like I said a new gym I not a
big fan of the bench here the the rack
height is a little bit too high for me
as you can see I'm pretty much fully
extended so I needed to rely on a lift
off pretty heavily for all the sets here
which you know isn't the best situation
but you know given that I still managed
to have a really good bench day I worked
up to 315 for six sets of three and I
believe this is set number one here
and it's cool because at the beginning
of this phase I remember that
psychologically that exact same amount
of weight felt extremely heavy in my
hands and I was really unconfident with
actually pausing it on my chest and in
this workout I did the same weight but
it was just that much easier it felt
that much easier and I think that this
is my second last set here and as you
can see the reps are still pretty smooth
considering the volume of work that I
did even before getting on the bench so
then I finished off the workout with
some Close Grip flat back presses here
and I think I did something like 4 sets
of 6 with 225 and then I finished out
the workout with some hip abductions
which I didn't film is go back home get
some post workout on it's gonna be pizza
pops actually wouldn't recommend any of
these on account of a very crappy
nutritional profile the trans fats and
saturated fats but then again I'm just
trying to get calories in so this helps
and then in addition to that I'll
probably me there's a little bit of time
left either chicken or maybe some of
this quest protein that we bought at the
expo