most Fitness influencers are wrong about
using EMG to guide exercise selection
the thinking goes that the exercises or
techniques that elicit the greatest EMG
amplitude will confer the most muscle
growth possible however how does using
EMG as a predictor of muscle growth
actually pan out well in a recent study
by plk and colleagues dat did just this
they tried to see whether or not using
EMG would actually be a predictor of
muscle growth across the whole study
participants first had their EMG
measured on a variety of exercises
specifically The Squat and thrust then
for the whole study they were assigned
to doing either just squats or just hip
thrusts they found that EMG during the
squat or hip thrust didn't actually
predict muscle growth stemming from the
squat hip thrust at all for example
while the hip thrust led to Greater EMG
in the glutes than the squat both the
squat and the hip thrust led to similar
glute growth overall so wherever
possible use better Hall marks of what
makes a good exercise for example
getting a good stretch in the toet
muscle group the exercise being
challenging in that stretch position and
finally being relatively
stable