[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike Anatole for
Renaissance period ization chapter six
of the RP diet book 2.0 Renaissance diet
supplements is going to be part 1 of our
talk today and then we'll do part 2 with
hydration supplements here's the deal
there are tons of them if you go to any
supplement store you will see thousands
of items on shelves right most of them
actually don't do a thing I know it's
completely crazy so all the different
ingredients you can put in supplements
most don't do anything there's only a
couple supplements that really work now
we didn't in the book review all of the
supplements that do anything we actually
picked them on a couple of criteria and
let me please tell you their criteria
because it's really important we picked
the supplements to include in our top
list of effective supplements based on
first of all data volume how much
science has been done if something has
two or three studies about it it's not
included our list could it potentially
be a supplement that works yes but we
need way more data than that dozens of
studies at least to get it supported to
put this in perspective one of the
supplements that made our list creatine
has hundreds of studies on it if not
more right another one is data age
sometimes a hot new supplement comes out
and you get four or five or even more
studies in the last couple of years
starting to show positive effects and
people get excited then only over the
long-term multiple years of research the
research designs get more advanced to
start teasing out the effects and we
realized that maybe was the placebo
effect maybe it was some other thing
maybe it was just statistical error and
it turns out that after five or ten
years of studying a supplement the
results come in and they don't look
nearly as great as they once did
this recently happened to a supplement
called citrulline malate which does not
meet our list some of the earlier
studies on it the first couple of years
were real positive and only lately have
studies been trickling in a lot of them
that say citrulline malate may be just
not as powerful as we thought maybe it
doesn't do much whatsoever
it would really be stinky for us to
charge you for a book link in the bio by
the way that you know recommend
supplements that are the hot new thing
but it turns out they don't work what a
ripoff we're only giving you guys things
that we think are pretty close to sure
of things so we need them to be
researched for a while another one is
data consensus does the data sort of
unequivocally point in the direction of
the supplement definitely does something
positive for example if we look at
glutamine as a supplement there's lots
of research on glutamine passes the
first criteria lots of the research has
been done over multiple decades fast as
the second so let's say glutamine well
the thing is if you look at glutamine a
good fraction over half of the studies
on it say it really doesn't do anything
some of the studies say definitely does
something and a lot of the studies are
like so the average sort of message from
science on glutamine is like don't don't
bet on it right it probably doesn't do
anything worthwhile so we have to have a
pretty clear data consensus if you look
at data from one of the supplements that
made the list caffeine does caffeine
enhance endurance performance if you
look at the studies probably about nine
out of ten of them are definite yes
maybe you know one out of twenty are
like maybe and another one out of twenty
are like no right or probably not it's a
pretty good consensus probably something
real is happening
lastly actually very importantly
real-world feedback have actual athletes
not lab rats not participants in
research studies the last two months use
these supplements gotten good benefits
from them because if we can't answer yes
to that maybe that supplement is not
really worthwhile they were studying
various forms of bicarbonate for a while
the research and it was starting to
check a lot of these boxes and then they
realized a little bit into the studies
when they altered the design to include
enough bicarbonate supplementation to
really make an endurance performance go
up one of the side effects was
uncontrolled diarrhea imagine finding
out about that when you get super
excited about your bicarb supplement and
you don't ask any real-world athletes or
you know we ask actual endurance
athletes to look at you and be like
that back-in-the-day like so what do you
think they're like don't do it don't do
it real bad idea right or it could do
really well in research because research
is done on beginners a lot of times and
it may everything works with them and
then your actual high level athletes use
it or folks like yourself anywhere in
the spectrum of just you know good
trained athletes
yeah just doesn't really do much and
people like you know don't pry don't
waste your money so we took all those
data metrics we combined them we get a
list of supplements here it is just
briefly mention them briefly mention
their effects if you all more details in
the book link in the description
caffeine like these aren't ranked by the
way caffeine works reduces how much pain
you're feeling from exercise increases
your work capacity improves set to set
recovery gives you mental focus reduces
your hunger caffeine is a hell of a drug
right it works super well you gotta be
intentional about taking it you can take
too much for sure don't do anything
crazy you can use caffeine at work whey
protein super high quality protein great
to be a part of the meal replacement
builds muscle helps with recovery great
product creatine creatine can make you
gain muscle faster by a little bit make
it performance a little better
especially in repeat and aerobic trials
except a five crece does good stuff
maybe even some health benefits there
and a lot of this is very very research
backed accreting is a very very clear
benefits they're not enormous but
they're definitely there Casey and
protein is slower digesting milk
fraction on the one that's not whey
protein and it's a really good meal
replacement protein because it will
leach out from your stomach into the
rest of your gastrointestinal tract to
over a very long time so if you are busy
with something maybe you're a conference
or at work you can't eat for many many
hours have a casein shake beforehand and
you're good to go
before sleep another really really good
option carb formulas sometimes is that
is that you have to eat 150 grams of
carbs after your workout and then you
have another meal of a hundred grams of
carbs then you have to go to sleep good
god you can't stuff that many carbs down
your gullet you're just done eating
you're at the end of a mass gaining
phase or muscle gain phase and you're
just you've had it with food carb
formulas can be an easy way to get a lot
of carbs super quickly doesn't just
you put them in you drink them and
that's it maltodextrin is a good example
of one of those carbs there's carb
formulas that are slower digesting and
there's carb formulas that are super
fast digesting for intro workout like
gatorade so on and so forth they work
super great they're not magical just
help you get in the carbs faster easier
less GI distress if that's what you need
multivitamins not a magic supplement but
if you're eating a good diet and you
know you have some kinks here and there
you can really smooth things out by
eating a multivitamin to make sure
definitely getting what you need to get
rounding out your intake it's like has a
bit of an insurance policy the thing
about multivitamins one of the ways they
make our list is their effect it's
really tiny but their price is so small
it almost doesn't make any sense to not
take them right the multivitamins or
some fraction of a penny per per pill so
really really easy choice and then the
last one is omega-3 fatty acid
supplements if you already have a good
omega-3 source in your diet you don't
need them at all you don't actually need
any of these supplements but that's why
they're supplements so Omega 3 fat
supplements DHA epa sometimes the
quality's an issue if you get rancid
fish oil it's no good but if you get
good quality supplements it can help a
little bit there's some good research
showing that omega-3 supplements are
beneficial to a variety of things
they're not panaceas there's been
especially a good volume of recent
research that has really tempered the
excitement about omega-3 fatty acid
supplements which was always kind of
incoming but if you look at the
theoretical underpinnings of these
supplements and most of the early work
some people just wildly exaggerated like
this is just gonna cure every disease
it's great for everything it's not it's
a small effect but it might help with
health might help with fat loss brain
function just a tiny little bit so you
can have it don't expect crazy results
[Music]