hey folks dr mike here with renaissance
periodization let's talk about why
unstable training doesn't really work
especially for strength and size
purposes which i assume any of you are
here to try to learn about so
unstable training what do we call
unstable well in reality there is a
spectrum of stability and instability on
which all training modalities in the gym
lie
the most stable kind of training occurs
on a fixed machine like a selectorized
chest press gee they all the handles
only move in a certain direction
and
it's so stable because it generates its
own internal friction that you don't
even get the full eccentric load because
the friction actually takes that away so
it's even more stable than a regular
weight and thus machines get the most
stability
second
least stable sorry second most stable is
the smith machine
smith machine is much more stable than a
barbell
allows you to feel most eccentric forces
but still has some friction and still
has a certain line of push or pull that
you can't deviate from it's more stable
than a barbell barbell moves are the
next most stable pretty stable if you're
quite adept at them
after that our body weight moves often
similar to barbell moves but the way in
which they're executed is usually a bit
more unstable for example push-ups are
just as stable as a bench uh even
sometimes more stable but dips you know
are a bit less stable than something
like a decline barbell press so it's
kind of up in the air body weight and
barbell are usually pretty similar after
that in most cases you have cables
significantly less stable but
nonetheless pretty stable then you have
dumbbells which tend to be actually
quite unstable but if you're well
practiced at them the loads are
relatively lighter and you're doing
normal movements not you know where both
of your feet are on the ground your
back's on a bench it can be pretty
stable
after that you have an inherently
unstable move usually with dumbbells for
example dumbbell lunges now they're
still good quality effective moves but
it requires quite a bit of balance to
get done properly and then after that
you have a big chasm of instability
which we don't have anything in and
towards the end of the spectrum of very
unstable are the intentionally unstable
moves
and for example they are bosu balls
doing crunches or squatting off a bosu
ball they can be
single leg or arm training that's
intentionally balanced focused so for
example you have
one dumbbell locked out in a press and
you're pressing the other dumbbell while
this one is just there and when you get
tired you do the other so probably one
of the stupidest ways you can train
football players do it all the time for
some reason then of course you have
things like the balance board which is
really tough to use and all of those et
cetera down the line balance modalities
are super unstable they're trying to
apparently actively get you to be off
balance
so
why is stability a good thing why do we
want it what do we know about stability
well
the faster fibers the fastest fast
twitch fibers you have
they generate lots of force when they
contract and we want them to do that
because they tend to be the most
strength enhancement prone and most
growth enhancement prone so if you train
harder and train your fastest fibers
they usually grow the most
so we want to have them generate lots of
force
and we want that force generation to
happen in a relatively safe manner
because if they're generating lots of
force but they become unstable during
that time you can get quite hurt
stability really reduces injury risk so
we want to generate very high forces in
order to have our fastest fibers be
super active and we want to do it in a
safe manner
now that's generally a huge argument for
being ultra stable but is there a thing
such as too stable maybe so there's this
process where you use machines smith
machines as well but usually normal
machines where and i'll make a separate
video about this later to get into the
intricacies i'll just introduce you this
concept really quick
if you have a high friction machine like
all machines are different as far as
friction the worst ones probably have
the highest friction
on the concentric with high friction it
doesn't matter because you're pushing
against the friction plus the load and
your muscles are contracting very well
but check this out if you push 100
pounds against friction and the friction
is let's say 50 pounds well that's not
exaggerated let's say 20 pounds of
friction the concentric is 120 pounds of
force on the way up okay fine
what about on the way back down the
selectorized stack is still 100 but the
friction is 20 and the friction works
both directions because the friction
works backwards too so now you're
exposing the eccentric to 80 pounds of
force as opposed to 120 now you wanted
100 if it was a free weight it would be
100 on the concentric 100 on the
eccentric if it was a smith machine it
would be 105 on the concentric 95 in the
eccentric no big deal
still getting sore everything's really
good but if you have a machine that has
a lot of internal friction then you
essentially bias it's 120 on the
concentric for example 80 on the
eccentric you're biasing the movement to
be concentric focused eccentric
unfocused
to be completely honest a very
oh
sort of open-minded reading of the
strength training and resistance
training literature for hypertrophy and
strength shows that if anything if we
have this magical ability we should make
machines that bias towards the eccentric
like 120 concentric 80. the other way
around the eccentric is probably a
little bit more hypertrophic than the
concentric but machines that generate a
lot of friction actually
push this back the other way now here's
the thing high friction machines are
very very stable but because the fact
that they de-emphasize the eccentric
especially that deep stretch with the
highest forces is now gone because it's
80 pounds not 120 what ends up happening
is they're probably not as hypertrophic
so there is a sense in which too much
stability
when it's at the expense of the friction
is not ideal right so selectorized
machines with lots of eccentric reducing
friction are maybe too stable
uh
and that's not great now
generally machines are very good awesome
stability you can get your faster fibers
going smith machines are excellent
barbells are incredible dumbbell moves
are good dumbbells and body weight but
with the following caveat especially
dumbbell moves and some cable moves
they're great but if you try to use very
low reps that's a 5 to 10 the
instability is so high that the faster
fibers don't even turn on much and thus
they don't get a lot of hypertrophy
however it's a
lighter weight sets of 10 to 20 then you
do get the fiber activation because the
instability never really gets out of
hand so the humble recommendation here
is yes use machines preferably the ones
with the lowest friction use smith
machines use barbells for sure for size
and strength definitely use dumbbells
and cables but the recommendation here
is to use them mostly in the 10 to 20 or
10 to 30 rep range or 20 to 30 and not
as much in the 5 to 10 rep range unless
your stimulus to fatigue ratio there is
just amazing right
now what about instability the upside of
stability is that allows our faster
fibers to activate and it keeps us safe
so we get really great training what
about instability what's the deal there
well
it does people will say instability is
good because you use your stabilizers
more and that's true unstable exercises
do involve muscles that are not directly
involved with the movement more the
problem is they work in dynamic
synergist roles in which they they fire
like a stabilizer so basically if in a
squat on a bosu ball your quads are the
main rocket boosters taking you up then
little tiny parts of your glutes on the
side and your abs and even muscles in
your back end up firing like when you
have to turn the space shuttle to dock
with the international space station
docking
if you don't know what i'm talking about
cool if you do you need to get on the
internet less so the space shuttle is
trying to dock with the international
space station it's
it's got those little little puff vector
thrust things that's how those muscles
act when they're stabilizer muscles and
you think okay if what grows muscles and
makes them a lot stronger is really
heavy action real hard contraction the
equivalent of a huge rocket booster when
we use our muscles that have the power
to be huge rocket boosters as just
little bursts of thrust to keep
ourselves from falling and killing
ourselves an unstable squat is that
hypertrophically stimulative to those
muscles to those stabilizers no it's not
it's way some threshold so when people
say well it's good to be unstable
because involves your stabilizers yes it
involves them but not in a high enough
requisite force production to actually
hypertrophy them or make them stronger
it's kind of like you're learning how to
stay ultra stable but you got nothing to
show for it because you're not more
jacked right that's not that great
now in beginners they can get some
stability muscles to get hypertrophy
because everything i purchase in your
beginner but especially when you're
immediate and advanced people like well
you should do this on uh you know cables
instead of a machine because you get
like you have to stabilize yourself and
it works your stabilizers it's just
tiring them out for no reason
but it gets worse than that
if
you are so unstable that you're not able
to generate max force you are trading
off the non-stimulation of the
stabilizers because they're just active
they're not stimulated you're training
that off to much less stimulation of the
dynamic of the actual prime movers so if
your bicep curl looks like this yeah
sure all these muscles around here tend
to you know be active a little bit give
you nothing but your biceps because
they're super unstable can't actually
recruit more of their faster twitch
fibers unless your growth is limited so
unstable training is not a good idea
now here's another benefit of unstable
training it teaches you to generate
force when unstable if you have practice
generating force one unstable like you
your unstable let's say balanced board
squat starts out at a max of a hundred
pounds after a few weeks of training it
given no underlying increase in the size
or strength of your quads just as a
technique you can get up to 120 or 130
pounds for a max squat because you're
less
you're better adapted to exerting
yourself in unstable situations and
people say it's a good thing but my
retort is this why
are you learning to train an earthquake
no
so what the hell are you doing
and the technical term for unstable
training this regard is unstable surface
training it is the surface the bosu ball
or the balance board that is unstable so
the specif specificity of your
adaptation is to train for an unstable
surface and you ask another question say
well this is like good for athletes and
stuff right well so first of all they
actually engage almost entirely on
stable surfaces
okay
football field
soccer pitch basketball court they're
not wobbling they're quite fucking
stable now the whole system is wobbling
because the athlete's moving a lot we
say well shouldn't we train them
unstable in the gym so that they get
good at it in the actual field of play
well actually the gym the purpose is to
train strength size and power as stable
as possible
stable is optimal in order to get those
train the best barbells machines
dumbbells etc
when we step under the field of play and
actually practice the sport that's when
we take our power and strength and
hypertrophy that's designed in its
ultimately stable environment and
transfer it into a less stable
environment that practice is how we
learn to exert ourselves unstable so if
you want a jiu jitsu competitor to get
really good at exerting themselves in
the less stable environment of jiu jitsu
you train them in a stable environment
regular weight room nothing fancy and
then you also have them practice
doing the sport of jiu-jitsu and they
learn to take their strength and size in
that practice and turn it into something
that works on stable notice
jim hardcore shit
actual field of play slash matt
hardcore shit
where the fuck is the bosu ball nowhere
it doesn't belong anywhere in that
because it's fucking pointless it's
taking a zero skill no jiu-jitsu
involved than squatting on a bosu ball
and also it obviates all the benefits of
a squat like making you jacked and
strong and it just teaches you the skill
of squatting on a bosu ball which is a
neat skill if you're
a seal a performing seal
at sea world i don't even know if that's
ethical anymore they still have
performing animals scott the video guy
yeah but they're under fire
under fire really
i saw a video once completely unrelated
to sea world or mammals called
performing animals number five volume
five
all right here's the worst part
let's say you're trying to
simultaneously be unstable in your
training and produce high degrees of
force that would be great
the problem is your body and brain are
designed to counter that
your body has evolved to do a few really
cool things for example
if you put your foot if you're climbing
trees and you put it onto a tree branch
your body doesn't know if that tree
branch is stable yet you will notice it
is almost impossible to convince
yourself to put all your weight down on
that foot
even if someone tells you the branch is
super stable because your body doesn't
believe you it is designed to cap
maximum force production to test out
like a cat you gotta test it out
if your body feels that the tree limb is
unstable it won't allow you to actually
put your weight down it's the scariest
thing in the world it's like a huge
feedback because you're like i can't i
can't do it somebody just step out
you're like nope it's unstable fuck that
fuck you fuck all of you climb back down
the tree yeah ain't my friends anymore
get in your car and drive away that's
the last time i had friends but in any
case it's not a really possible thing
because your body auto caps force
production if it detects instability try
don't try this think about it in your
head don't actually try this
a sheet of very very slick ice you stand
on it try to jump as high as you can
your body won't let you have quads and
glutes engaged at a very high force
level because it's like fuck you we're
unstable we're gonna die trying to do
this hell no it just won't do it so if
you put people onto a bosu ball or onto
unstable boards and you actually have
them squat which is direct research i
was involved with as a master student at
appalachian state a few years back a
decade back
and what we found was
people's max squats max squats tested
all the way they warmed up and
everything maximum squats on an unstable
surface and uh two little like bosu ball
thingies uh they were
as an average of 60 percent as much as
their actual max squats on a stable
surface
but hold on a sec some of your
physiology is coming back
faster twitch fibers aren't even
recruited
until you get into the 70s in most cases
the biggest fast switch fibers start
getting recruited in the 70 1rm range
and above
60
is almost a guarantee that you're not
recruiting your biggest gnarliest muscle
fibers and it's the best possible way to
cap strength production
strength improvement and hypertrophy
improvement just by design right so the
recruitment of faster fibers is minimal
at
even if it feels like you're trying so
when you do a one-arm attempt on
bosu balls it feels quote unquote heavy
doesn't feel like it's pushing a lot
through your spine but you feel like
holy shit i can barely move this that's
because you're unstable the challenge is
a bad challenge it's not helping you out
a non-directed adaptation challenge
isn't good challenge isn't the point
specific challenge to get you good at
the thing is the point right imagine if
you were trying to learn spanish as fast
as possible because in a week and a trip
to spain where you had to negotiate with
some people what would make it harder
for you to learn spanish is if the
spanish was presented at an accelerated
pace if the word used quickly expanded
to more advanced that makes it harder
but in a way that makes you better at
spanish however
somebody could say you know what would
really make spanish learning harder and
like what like learn normal spanish get
on your fucking scott what's that
language app called uh
fuck swipe
it's babble what the fuck are you
talking about did you say language yeah
yeah rosetta stone
right
okay fine but rosetta stone's good can
you just have me can i have my win
so anyway you got your language app and
someone's like hey while you learn
spanish would really make it challenging
is you also get kicked in the nuts every
five minutes you're like what that would
make it harder yes would it make you
better at spanish no other than saying
ideos meow a whole lot when you get
kicked in the nuts so balance training
is definitely hard unstable training is
hard
but it's not hard in a way that makes
you more jacked or strong or athletic it
just makes you marginally better at
doing balance training which if that's a
priority to you
i got a circus i run maybe you can join
our circus we got
bearded man ah that's not very exotic
elephant woman yeah see that's better
all right so final recommendations on
unstable training if you want the best
size and strength you got to be stable
machines smith machines barbells body
weight
cables and dumbbells are great but i
would recommend using them mostly in the
10 to 30 rep range not on the five to 10
rep range
if you want to do unstable training
think about why you want to do it and
what you're going to get out of it and
if the rest of this presentation hasn't
disproven that
if you want
to just do it because you love it or if
you want the skill of being able to
squat standing on two separate
basketballs
fine but reconsider because it's not the
best way to get bigger stronger or
better at sports
that's my shit
folks last thing i want to tell you is
this
like subscribe
click comment see you next time
you