what's going on guys is day two of the
LA Fit Expo and Stephanie and I found
our luggage we're actually wearing what
we're supposed to wear so as it turns
out the luggage was there all along
since yesterday morning I'm gonna roll a
couple clubs up here of us finding our
luggage how long have they been there
this morning early in the morning
yesterday yeah no way
why didn't they call us yeah there was
no note in her room so anyway apparently
our bags were here yesterday does seem
so obvious in hindsight that we should
have just like checked the front desk
but they told us that they would give us
a call and we would have thought that
the hotel would have like notified us or
left us a note or something so like we
never literally just like didn't think
to do that until now and well at least
we got our stuff that's that's the
meaning so yeah we're really happy that
we got it I'm going back for another
four hours meeting you guys today which
I'm really excited for and today we're
gonna go for a workout at Gold's Gym the
mecca of bodybuilding all right I'm just
guys were honoring the way to the expo
right now and I figured something I'd
cover just quickly on the way just to
make this video a little bit more
informative because I was actually
reading a new study a few people sent it
my way yesterday I had a quick read
through it this morning I was waiting it
was really interesting because it's sort
of like it doesn't really refute EMG as
a methodology but it sort of I guess
encourages us to have caution in terms
of how we interpret data that uses EMG
and then how we apply it so as many of
you guys know I've used EMG research a
lot on this channel to justify certain
exercises and so there's this new study
published by a good friend of mine for
game Vygotsky who I've actually
interviewed before on the channel and
I'm hoping to have him on again time to
talk about this in a little bit more
detail but I think that the main two
takeaways at least for our practical
purposes from this paper where that one
he
encouraging people to use the term
excitation rather than activation when
referring to a mg amplitude and the
difference here is basically that
excitation refers to a neuromuscular
process whereas activation refers to
basically how many motor units are
firing roughly speaking so those are not
necessarily synonymous so that's
something that I'm gonna use moving
forward when I talk about EMG research
I'm going to talk about excitation of
the muscle rather than activation but
even more practical for hypertrophy
purposes I think is that we need to be
wary of how we're applying this
excitation data to long term hypertrophy
because according to this paper the
evidence isn't really there to show
unnecessarily strongly correlated link
between EMG amplitude and hypertrophy
over the long term and basically I think
from my perspective and a lot of people
who have used this as a proxy for
hypertrophy because it's a lot easier to
stick some electrodes on people and
measuring EMG amplitude and it is to
conduct a study over 12 weeks and
measure have heard me that way so it
does have its purpose in the research
and it's very hip Bunton abundant as a
methodology and I think that the theory
basically goes that if you have greater
excitation that's going to result in
greater activation which will mean
greater motor unit recruitment than
greater muscle protein synthesis and
greater hypertrophy now in this paper
they basically take the line that that
last link in that chain is the one that
they kind of have an issue with that's
the one that they try to refute and they
cite one paper from 2014 how much I
remember reading when it came out which
I think it was titled something like
myofibrillar protein synthesis doesn't
correlate with long term
hypertrophic adaptations or something
like that and this study does in fact
find that in the six hours after a
resistance training session muscle
protein synthesis doesn't correlate with
hypertrophy over like a 12 week training
program or what have you but I think
that muscle protein synthesis almost
obviously has to correlate with
hypertrophy in some sense because net
protein balance is simply a function of
rates of muscle protein synthesis
- rates a muscle protein breakdown so
for a max hypertrophy you want synthesis
to be high and breakdown to be low so it
would be interesting to talk to ended a
little bit more about this and the
researchers on that paper
do make the case that there's indirect
evidence to suggest that protein
synthesis and hypertrophy are linked
such as if you look at studies that
looked at feeding milk protein versus
soy protein you tend to see higher rates
of muscle protein synthesis with the
milk protein and then you also tend to
see more hypertrophy with the milk
protein it's not in the same study but
combining them together it doesn't seem
to indicate that there there is a link
there um so I think that there is still
a pretty decent theoretical basis for
using EMG research as sort of a stand-in
for hypertrophy and another another
interesting thing I actually just
remembered was that they referenced some
research on stretching which shows that
even in the absence of activation
you can still see significant hyper just
from stretching alone um so it isn't the
case that activation willness that more
activation necessarily leads to more
hypertrophy but I think that all else
being equal if you assume this stretch
is equal you assume the load is equal
and all the rest is equal I think that
more excitation should mean more
activation which then should mean more
hypertrophy over the long term that's my
current opinion on it's really rough
thoughts because I just like I read the
paper this morning or if you guys would
like to hear me do a full-blown
interview with one of the researchers I
think the lead researcher actually on
this paper on a channel just let me know
and
something I'd love to cover in more
detail so anyway we're gonna finish out
this uber ride get to the expo don't
check them to you guys over there
so that's a real fitness influencer
there
right I'm just gonna put train our train
smart sign it
so we've made it back to the expo day
two
yeah some of you guys with you
break
that's a wrap I'm gonna go work out now
man I need some food where are we going
yeah yeah yeah
so we're gonna get some food I'm gonna
check in with you guys at the restaurant
I don't know what we're getting
Stephanie was talking about maybe sushi
or maybe some like Korean food or
something I forget it anyway I'm gonna
check in with you guys at the restaurant
just wanna quickly say everyone who came
out today thank you so much I was like
completely blown away by the turnout
here I was here last year it was nice I
met some people but this time there was
little really no breaks in the line four
hours straight
we had like a full lineup around the
booth the whole time it was just
absolutely amazing and like humbling
from heat to know that many people were
interested to come out
and yeah I just want to thank all you
guys so much and I'll check with you
guys at the restaurant
after sushi you ready to see me even
people people at the expo we're grilling
me for not being able to get closer
we're gonna learn tonight learn today
I'm on a California spicy tuna for sure
and salmon also like I talked to like so
many people over our subscribers and you
guys have totally convinced me to bring
the podcast back and I am going to
change the name I decided on that so
it's currently hard called ice cream
cars
I'm gonna change it to the Jeff nipper
podcast because that's just how most
people know me now and I think that
it'll be more searchable and
discoverable that way so I'm gonna do
that it's seriously gonna come back
strong I'm doing that first episode of
like the revival with Kamal Patel of
examine comm we're going to talk about
the vegan diet and it's gonna be very
in-depth very evidence-based very
unbiased as unbiased as we can make it
and I think you guys are really gonna
like it so I'm gonna double post them on
iTunes stitcher and then also on this
main channel I'm so you can stay tuned
for that podcasts coming back okay so
here we go this is called a hot night
roll it's like spicy tuna with shrimp
tempura and I think some scallop in
there as well so it's really good I'm
excited to try that and then I have
California roll and a spicy tuna roll so
we're gonna dig in this is our
pre-workout meal I don't feel like I'm
gonna
I'm so I might slam some caffeine and
then we're gonna kill a workout just
finished up with the sushi I actually
like cut myself a little bit
I ate a decent amount of sushi but like
at the same time like I'll start to
crash if I eat too many carbs especially
too late like after a long day like that
so I feel nice and full we're gonna get
it uber allow that to digest a little
bit we go to the mecca Gold's Gym and
get in a back over there so I'll check
in with you guys when we get over there
[Music]
take your time look into the trash
ringing all the time
[Applause]
[Applause]
that's a wrap I think I think this was
honestly my favorite Expo to date I had
such a blast here this weekend it was so
good I have to give a shout out to her
Sean for being behind the camera the
whole weekend making our life so easy
hey I'm so excited to see that it on
this is the first time I haven't liked
Ben inker like creative control of my
own contents I like I'm really excited
if you guys like the video please give
me a thumbs up like the Edit give it a
thumbs up please and I will see you guys
in the next video peace