what's going on everyone thanks for
clicking on the video before we get into
the topic of today's video I just wanted
to quickly share with you guys something
that I think is really important any of
you guys who follow me maybe a little
bit more closely or maybe you know me
personally will know that a side hobby
of mine I'm something I like to do in my
spare time is read about philosophy and
in particular moral philosophy one paper
that I found to be really influential is
one of the most famous papers in this
this area and it's paper written I think
in the late 70s by Peter Singer and
basically in the piece he poses the
question or he imagines you to think
about a situation where you're walking
down the street say you're on your way
to buy some new clothes or something and
just to the side of the sidewalk there's
a pool or like one of those fountains
that has like a pool at the base of it
in the pool there's a child who's
drowning and there are a bunch of other
people walking along the sidewalk with
you but they're not doing anything is it
reasonable to jump in the water and save
the drowning child even though you might
you know ruin your outfit and you might
not get to go shopping as quickly or
whatever and of course everyone agrees
that yes the morally correct thing to do
in this situation is to jump in and save
the child and then he'll pose the
question does it matter that there are a
bunch of other people around but they're
not doing anything even though they
could and that doesn't really change the
situation even though there's other
people around
you're still ethically obligated I think
- you still have that moral duty to sort
of save the child if you can and then he
poses the question of whether or not
geographical distancing so say the child
is really far away and you're able to
help the child in some other way out of
no real harm or even inconvenience to
you are you still morally obligated to
help and most people say yes you should
still help if you're able to you know if
it doesn't do any harm to you and sooner
actually conclude something that is
within the philosophical community that
you should donate almost all of your
income to people who are in greater need
of it I personally think that if you
have the ability to help than you should
and I think that in light of our current
circumstances I'm sure all of you are
aware of Hurricane harvey and for me
just being in Florida this is just
across the Gulf in Texas and it does
feel very close to home and so I would
encourage you guys if you do have the
ability to donate then you should so
there's a link in the description but
yeah that's my spiel about that so let's
get on to the topic of the video so
we're gonna be looking at the question
of is there a better time of day to
train so should you train in the morning
or the evening and also does it matter
the order in which you do your cardio
and your weight training so should you
do cardio first or weights first to help
us answer this question I'm gonna look
at two studies and they were reviewed in
this month's issue of mass mass is
something I've talked about a lot before
but it's basically a research review
that I draw heavily on for my science
explain videos and for these informative
videos there are two studies that drew
from one data set and it's a it's a huge
data set as there's a lot to talk about
but I'm gonna try to summarize it to the
main practical takeaways so before we
dig into it to really over arching main
takeaways that I want to position here
at the beginning so that we have context
for the ensuing conversation first of
all whether you train in the morning or
the evening or whether you do cardio
first or weights first you can build
muscle while doing any of those things
so as long as your weight training and
you have sufficient protein in your diet
and efficient calorie intake overall you
will build muscle or you can build
muscle and so these are sort of minutia
that can help optimize your trainers
these are questions you ask you know
after you have a solid training program
in place a solid diet in place that
allows you to build muscle
from the outset second of all I think
that the most important thing should be
consistency actually following through
on your plan so if you work a job or
something that doesn't allow you to get
in the gym at a certain time even though
it may be in concept more optimal you
should go with what allows you to get in
the gym most consistently whatever that
is in how it lines up with your schedule
best but with that said let's stick into
what these studies had to say so this
study split 72 subjects they were aged
late 20s in 30s and they were described
as recreationally active so they had
resistance trained before but they
weren't on any dedicated training
program over the last year and they
split them into four groups two groups
trained in the morning and two groups
trained in the evening and within each
morning and evening subsets one group
would do cardio before training and the
other group would do weight training
before cardio and then the evening group
you had one group doing cardio first and
the other group doing weights first each
of the subjects had their chrono types
measured now so chrono type is basically
a measure of circadian rhythm so some
people have so-called strong evening
this or in other words they tend to stay
up very late in sleep in a little bit
later and other people have very strong
morning this so these are like morning
people I tend to go to bed very early
and also wake up very early but all the
subjects in this study were not
classified as either extreme and none of
them were working like night shifts or
on sleep medications or anything like
that so the morning group strains
sometime between 6:00 and 10:30 a.m. and
the even group strains sometime between
4:30 and 8 p.m. so you can pause the
screen here to get a good idea of what
the training setup was like but in short
they basically split the whole study
into two blocks of 12 weeks so the first
12 weeks would be considered like a
short-term duration the second 12 weeks
was more of like a longer term duration
for a 24v total study length and then
within the first 12 weeks they ran three
blocks back to back to back
and they repeated those three blocks in
the second 12 weeks the first block was
focused on strength endurance so light
weights with high reps and minimal rest
between sets the second block was more
hypertrophy focused so more moderate
loads for about 10 to 15 reps per set
and the final block was strength focused
with heavy weights in low reps and the
main exercises that they use to measure
strength outcomes across the study were
leg press like extensions in leg curls
but they also did a bunch of upper-body
stuff like pull downs presses and and so
on on the subjects were only training 2
times per week and in the first training
session they do low intensity
steady-state cardio and then in the
second weekly training session they do
high-intensity interval training cardio
so they measured a bunch of stuff but
most relevant to us as people interested
in maximizing strength and size gains
they used an ultrasound to measure a
quad muscle cross sectional area and
they used leg press one rep max and
maximum isometric knee extension force
to assess strength and so because this
study had so many different groups and
so many different sub categories there
was a lot of data here and if you are
subscribed to mass I definitely
recommend reading into the fine print a
little bit more as there are some
subtleties in there that have important
takeaways but for here I'm just gonna
outline generalities one of the most
important takeaways from the study was
that there was an order effect C and
this is something that I've emphasized
on this channel for a while but it
basically says that if you want to get
better at any given quality then you
should do it early in the training
session when you're feeling fresh so in
essence doing cardio first led to
improve measures of endurance and doing
weight training first led to improve
measures of strength in size I'm sorry
if your goal is to get better at doing
cardio do your cardio first if your goal
is to get bigger and stronger should do
your weight training it's worth
mentioning in the piece Craig alludes to
some claims that you should do cardio
before weight training because since
cardio is catabolic and weight training
is anabolic doing cardio after weight
training might dampen that post-workout
and
signal but I'm not aware of any data
supporting this and honestly this study
supports exactly the opposite of that
conclusion so I think that we should go
with the data that we have and if your
goal is to maximize strength and size
then you should prioritize that and do
your weight training first so a little
bit of my own added commentary here I
would like to distinguish between doing
cardio before training as like a fat
loss tool and then cardio before
training as a warm-up technique so I
think that doing some amount of cardio
before weight training is a good idea
for a reducing injury risk and for
increasing performance for me usually
this lasts a minimum of 10 minutes but I
found that even going as high as you
know 15 to 25 minutes of low intensity
cardio before training doesn't really
seem to negatively impact on my
performance so I wouldn't look at that
necessarily black and white like never
do any cardio before your training but
just make sure that you keep it low
intensity and make sure that the
duration doesn't get carried away I also
wouldn't want to conflate this
recommendation with a claim that doing
cardio after training is better for fat
loss because even though it may be true
that you might burn more fat during that
cardio session after weight training
that's a narrow acute focus and we know
that what really matters ultimately for
fat loss is 24 hour or longer energy
balance and so what substrate you
utilize preferentially during the
training session I think is sort of
missing the forest for the trees so
doing cardio after weight training is a
good idea primarily for performance
reasons and not necessarily for
increasing fat burning I also think that
in practice it might be smart to space
your cardio apart from your weight
training if you can my personal
recommendation is try to have at least
one meal or even if it's just a carb
source between your weight training in
your cardio so that you can decrease
those performance detriments as much as
possible and get the most out of both
but ultimately my main recommendation
for cardio is to do it when it best fits
your schedule and if you do have to do
cardio and weight training in the same
session then you should do your cardio
after your weight training
if possible have a little carb snack or
liquid meal or something in between
those two the only time I really
probably wouldn't recommend doing cardio
is right before training unless you're
using it as a low intensity warmup for
the resistance training session itself
okay so what about morning vs evening
training what matters there for
hypertrophy so the main takeaway of the
study was that in the first twelve weeks
there was no difference between the
morning in the evening groups however in
the second 12 weeks there was more
significantly more hypertrophy in those
who trained in the evening and Greg
highlights some earlier research of two
earlier papers that also support this
idea more hypertrophy is generally seen
in people who train in the evening so
just some of my own commentary here I've
often heard that you should train in the
morning because that's when you can
optimize growth hormone output in
response to the training and honestly I
think that manipulating hormones
especially growth hormone within the
natural physiological range is really a
fool's errand I talked about this in my
staff header my steroids and my
testosterone science explained video I
think that it'd be much better to
structure your training around when
you're able to perform the best and if
that's in the morning then that's okay
but I think that for most people given
improved or generally improved hydration
status more of a Fed state perhaps more
glycogen training performance is
probably better for most in the evening
with that said I've coached a lot of
people who say work long day jobs or
maybe they're students
and after that long work day or school
day they're more tired in the evening
and so they find that they can perform
better in the morning
and a lot of this can have to do with
Khurana type as well so if you are
someone who has a strong morning.this
than perhaps you should ignore this data
and go with what is working best for you
or you found to historically work better
for you however assuming none of those
things are in place and you can train
according to a flexible schedule we do
have some accumulating evidence now
that training in afternoon or evening
slightly better for maximizing
hypertrophy and the authors of this
study didn't really speculate too much
on why that may be the case but I would
hypothesize that it's probably mostly
due to performance improvements the fact
that you're just better fed more
glycogen or hydration you feel more
awake that sort of thing but again that
will be highly individual so that's it
for this one guys I hope that you liked
the video please make an effort to
donate to the hurricane Harvey Relief
Fund or any other chair to you that you
trust and just remember that
geographical distancing or the presence
of others who may be or may not be
helping I don't think is a valid excuse
to not help if you can and of course
every bit does help and also I've got
more information about mass linked in
the description so if you'd like to
check that out I think that mass does a
really good job of citing a lot of
research that has a lot of application
and it certainly covers a lot more than
I can do on this channel and if you do
sign up you get access to all of the
back dated issues so as of now I think
there are six issues that are out and
there's just a ton of material in there
not just reading material they also do
videos and audio so if you don't have
the time to read you can listen to it on
the go so yeah this is a really really
great resource to anyone who has an
interest in the science behind building
strength gaining muscle being healthier
all that kind of stuff thanks again guys
so much for watching and I've got
another science explained video on the
way this week I'm hoping for a Wednesday
upload as you can stay tuned for that
and I will see you guys then