oh and these got to push it back that's
clever I don't hate that okay that's
random little partial push-up
pops oh fcking battling
Rogues Hollywood your workouts are so
godamn Random what is it even that we're
training for anymore Jesus
[Music]
Christ hey folks Dr Mike israell here
for Renaissance periodization I'm a
professor of sport science and the
creator of the RP hypertrophy app which
is interesting because that is an app
for training and it turns out we have
got competition from none other than
Thor himself Mr Chris Hemsworth let's
see what his workouts look like maybe
you can go download his app and make him
a little bit more money yes to the
training footage five ways Chris
Hemsworth stays in superhero shape okay
curious now on an intellectual level it
would be interesting to examine how he
got into superhero shape and also of
course interesting to examine how he
stays there but something to note from
Sport Science is that getting to a
certain level of physique development or
strength level or endurance capacity
anything impressive is always manyfold
harder than staying there maintenance is
known around the sport and exercise
world as categorically easier Often by a
factor of 2 to 10 and as far as effort
and time and complexity and demand than
getting to that place of Elite Fitness
so why am I saying this don't you go
doing these workouts thinking it'll make
you look like Chris Hemsworth did in the
Thor movies because even if that workout
was a
thing you would have to look at what
that workout was to get him in that
shape because he didn't do this workout
to get in that shape according to the
title's video he stays in superhero
shape with this workout so it's going to
be less stuff and it's going to get you
some results for sure if you do it maybe
not results as exceptional as you would
have liked to get what the is that we
got some be crawl dumbbell pushes just
because we do have a snippet of this
exercise here I might as well critique
it um there are generally three kinds of
muscle action there is concentric muscle
action where the muscle itself shortens
as you contract it there's Ecentric
action where the muscle is lengthening
but still Contracting resisting and
imposing force and then this isometric
where you don't move the muscle but it
still contracts and generate Force
usually because you're holding something
too heavy to move what Chris is doing
here is concentric only contractions for
his legs and while that's cool it's
actually not the most growth promoting
thing you can do it turns out muscle
growth benefits a lot from definitely
both Ecentric and concentric actions
probably a little bit more from Ecentric
actions than concentric but it's the
combination of both that tends to
produces great results and there is an
idea that maybe even some isometrics in
there like pauses and top holds can add
a little bit more flavor to that
equation but concentric only is kind of
a way to do a lot of work predictably
getting less muscle growth than you
would have otherwise for the same effort
expended psychologically physically
calories burn Etc so if you want to do
this exercise to change your body shape
to become more muscular and stuff this
probably ain't it but if you want to
destroy a carpet in a hotel room this is
a great way to start the night janitor
comes in halfway through he's like God
buddy I've seen the Thor movies man
thank you what the what would you doing
who the fuck supposed to clean that
carpet up you you you're putting all
that whatever the black
weight ran out of steam on that joke
fuck you that's what the night janitor
would say I don't even know what I'm
trying to say he uses the center app
Chris launched the fitness app in 2019
cool God I'd launch something at him and
it's not a fitness app for those of you
at home who are confused about the joke
I want to make sure we're on the same
page is ejaculatory semen Jesus Christ
Scott you will not bring his name into
this conversation can you do your
goddamn job back there and just be quiet
don't act like you haven't seen some
shit come your way before Scott the
video guy doing that my that's my dog
I'm out here draking this shit every now
and again I let it hit me you know what
I'm saying BS we're not all 100%
straight and around Mr Chris Hemsworth I
know what you're saying you're Dr Mike
with the gay shit again yep it's 2023
well got 50 genders now on wake up and
deal with the shit Crim Chris Hemsworth
is beautiful period period give a shit
what sexual proclivity you have in any
case's get on with the video this is a
fitness channel right right Chris's
personal trainer Luke zachi also helped
develop the app hey lcco
whoa there are more Italian names than
lukee zachi but there are very very few
of them hey zako hey what are you doing
hey out of here I've got aing Apple
Chris Hemsworth what do youing know
about it
you hey guys I'm the ex oh no he's
Australian or something my favorite word
to pronounce in Australian is the word
no it is the word to tell you that
you're not agreeing to Something in the
English language in Australian it sounds
approximately
like
[Music]
no there are at least 18 letters in the
word no in Australian now back to our
schedule programming I'm Chris Hemsworth
tryer I'm going to take you through a
workout with Chris himself oh uh Scott
this is one of these that has Chris in
it for real yes for real and it starts
with an
explosion callor me erect no yeah
we're not going to do it Chris why not
we can't get him mate he's too expensive
pun you
bitch where's the person to pour liquid
shit on my head the look for this film
was to go for more of an athletic less
bulky look than Thor so that is not an
athletic less bulky look that's a man in
a suit I have no idea what he looks like
I designed the program with oh the the
the Ragnarok physique that was a good
physique it wasn't quite as absurd as
lust and thunder love and Thunder I only
really felt lust when I watched that
movie we're going to start with the
warm-up warmup is so important for every
workout really set you up for a good
workout prevents injuries accurate so
far so good we' normally locked the warm
up for 10 minutes that's a bit much but
uh no no love lost I think 5 minutes is
probably better warmup should be cut
short and sweet it is say handstand walk
for 10 minutes on that screen right
there Scott the video guy do you think
that's what he
does it's almost like they joke around a
lot in this one men health is so funny
and Hell stop playing exercise like
walking on your hands this is constant
for 10 minutes don't let your feet touch
the
ground only joking
Jing there is no amount of Australian
English that I can hear to where I don't
want to hear a lot more of it I could
just be sitting next to an Australian
couple talking about God knows what who
cares it is just like music to my ears I
can't get enough of it oh and just some
random guy show up on a my handstand
that was really nice this is Bobby Chris
a stuntman oh he's a stuntman is this
the guy that looks close enough to Thor
that like that's the guy that rolls
around and gets hit with bricks or
whatever he's
doing nice he's
big real big can we zoom in on his bulge
is that possible what just kidding first
exercise we're going to do for the
warmup is bear crawls this is a great
exercise to use cuz it's full body
workout 20 seconds on 10 seconds off
going to start slow and progressively
get quicker Force going up keeping your
core tight and then now your shoulders
are driving your back this is a perfect
body weight exercise to really get the
heart rate up that's cool that's great
great warm up and get nice and warm is
it normal that I'm tired already you
know okay so this guy the stuttman just
made a joke is it normal that I'm tired
already that's actually a real thing so
when you're warming up one of the things
you're doing is you're actually
physically warming up your joints and
your muscles and your connective tissues
another thing you're doing is you're
raising your level of fight ORF flight
hormones and these two things and a few
others in concert another one real quick
is you're waking up your nervous system
for some high-intensity activity because
much of your nervous system stays
relatively dormant because you're not
trying to like breaking bricks with your
face or some shit when you're normally
sitting around so when you start the
warmup and start doing the warmup
activities it often feels like you're
like oh my god dude I'm so weak and I'm
tired already what the that's because
you just started the warmup and the
actual effect of the warm-up hasn't hit
yet that effect is delayed by generally
a few minutes so a lot of times people
will experience this effect where they
get into the gym they start the warm up
and they're like dude F this I can't be
here if I'm struggling with the warm
what the hell am I going to do the
workout my recommendation is this give
it some time keep warming up it's going
to be tough it's going to suck warmups
always kind of suck but as you go
through the warm up warm War you're
going to find that you get your swag
back a little bit you feel a little bit
better now the warms are easier now
they're really easy now you get into the
working part of the workout the real
meat potatoes and you're like hey you
know what this I got this shit get off
me baby and all of a sudden you're
ripping fences down the police are
shooting at you bullets are bouncing off
your head you're breathing fire in New
York City that's a typical workout on
the RP hypertrophy app with over 28
preset programs already in the app you
can choose to make your own you can
modify an existing program or you can
just run the programs exactly as they
were written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app
today first size is a Whited burpees oh
that's fuing sweet a lot of people Pat
themselves on the back for doing burpees
and if you do enough of them they can be
very difficult to wait at burpees Next
Level I want to see how they do this
shit so let's go Bob I want you to bend
down keeping your core tight pose
out spine is neutral head in good
position one more let's go Bob yeah this
is a sweet exercise for general fitness
overall getting healthy challenging the
body that sucks the weighted component
of it is brutal um it's a great exercise
without weight but you add weight to the
shit I me you're training like damn near
80% of the body at the same time this is
this is respect this is a great choice
down C Bob's like what the did I get
myself into I'm a stunt man can someone
just hit me with a garbage truck or some
shit I'm not trying to do all this
looking forwards back stage neutral and
up the second exercise we're going to do
is a curl and press this is working the
biceps and shoulders in the one exercise
it's a bit more functional I like that
he emotions to the core but that was
never mentioned I suppose everything
thing kind of trains the core keeping
your core switched on you can just
ignore that part I don't know what
keeping your core switched on means that
this is nonsense your core will switch
on when the weights are sufficiently
heavy if if the weights are really heavy
you can be taught how to brace that's
very different than keeping your core
switched on I'm not exactly sure what
that means your core doesn't just turn
off if it did you would just fold over
Bob pull up with a cur he want you to
keep your shoulders back oh man Bob's
got great technique weight on your heels
head in neutral position just Cur go and
press dope this is a great exercise
there's a slight not concern but
technicality where you might be able to
shoulder press significantly more than
you can curl thus there's a mismatch to
the challenge um your shoulders might be
totally fine still to keep going but
your biceps are dead so you can't get
the weight up anymore but for many
people again not folks trying to look
like Chris hamsworth exactly but folks
just try to put their swag a little bit
up to that next level just burn a little
fat add a little muscle maybe they come
from a basically an active lifestyle
this is this is a very great exercise
huge timesaver uh great Mobility all
that stuff now we're on to the goblet
squat we're hitting the lower body so
the Goblet squats a fine movement most
people are flexible enough to take one
dumbbell each and put it onto their
shoulders respectively more of a
dumbbell front squat this is generally
more stable position and because you can
let the weight load into your shoulders
it doesn't actually tax the arms as much
and lets the legs be more of a limiting
factor in addition again for folks just
trying to get fit and and stay
relatively fit it's a fine exercise um
it's unlikely that someone like Mr Bob
here who's in phenomenal shape got that
way and it's sure shit unlikely that
Chris Hemsworth got that way from goblet
squats and there's a reason for that you
just can't hold a
dumbbell that's large enough to
challenge your legs because your arms
aren't as strong as your legs it's just
about as simple as that so you know is
it going to be challenging for him to
squat with what looks to be like 20 or
20 5 lb well if that's challenging when
he goes and does squats with the bar in
the gym does he just keep an empty bar
in his back and people like what you
going up to today he's like nah man just
staying at the bar like are you hurt
nope it's just just goblet gobble gobble
gobble they're like oh okay I'll see
myself out the last three exercises 6
seven and eight are purely designed at
Hidden shoulders at every
angle
huh Scott did I uh have an anur a Midway
through or was there no attempt to train
the back at
Allie
do lateral Rays let's do some upright
rows too and front Rays is the next one
an upright
row been at this a while uh solid very
very solid a good combo really fries all
of the delts uh could do a little bit
more rear delt something like start with
a bent lateral then come up and do side
lateral and then maybe a front raise or
an upright row a little bit to the front
but I'm just nitpicking here this is
very good stuff if shoulder hypertrophy
is a preference for you so start off
with the lateral raise keeping your core
tight and control that wa now I'm into a
front rise and into an upright row keep
that Bob's technique is just St finish
we're going to do core exercises we're
going to do a plank Punch Out
core okay the punch out's a waste of
time but it's cool a little bit of
obliques getting hit there it's
isometric so it's not the best I just
rather him lay on his back and well oh
uh exercise stuff and just do crunches
or um toe touches or something but that
actually dynamically trains the ABS and
it's better for your abs but you know I
don't hate this and I saw Mr Bob in that
position right there I wouldn't hate
that either going to put your elbows
underneath your shoulders your knees
here
here
here
here both English you never would know
no wait sorry one is a Australian and
the other is American hey
Scott hey Scott's video guy hey where
were you born
brother if you guys think this video is
going well and it's some combination of
funny and informative you'll love our
extra super ultra long cut Tri xx rated
video that we have in our memb section
so give a thought to
joining what the fuck is going on I
swear to God bro sometimes Hollywood
training is just like babysitting like
we got a 200 lb athlete child actor who
knows what and they just need to be
entertained for 20 minutes do something
they like fun by the way and then their
agent off and you're like so Chris do
you like to play with a ball and he's
like
mhm have you ever been tied up before
for he's like mhm oh let's play with
balls while we tie you up he's like oh
yeah and then you do this shit he's like
ow this isn't as fun but it's still
pretty cool the
lawn yeah like the resistance bands do
something but it's a lot of setup for a
very very small upside you could do this
just with your body weight and get
almost all the benefits without having
to SNM your way into some
Contraption which I love but not for
exercise for relaxation oh no that's not
relaxing fun
yes doing some caera that's nice I've
been I've been B boying for a bit I've
break danced a few times this is good
stuff pulling a bag to
yourself there's a guy in the corner on
the some machine like what the fuck is
going on here oh and he's got to push it
back that's clever I don't hate
that okay that's random little partial
push-up
pops oh fcking battling
ropes
Hollywood your workouts are so goddamn
random what is it even that we're
training for anymore Jesus
Christ that the is that what the fuck is
that weird partial knee push-up it looks
like a prayer which is
nice
Hollywood Hollywood breake dancing he
does look athletic I'll say that I can't
do anything this athletic
ever this is like a warm-up you would do
for Jiu-Jitsu but you never get to the
Jiu-Jitsu
part those are cool little
hops does this seem really random to
anyone else
no oh Scott video guy did you see
thato oh holy shit I love it it's just
so like God it's just like he's setting
up for a dance move and then he never
does the dance move
um he's he's he does this
everywhere I don't this training oh he's
doing the same thing
is they're like Chris and act like an
animal but one with rhythm and who's
maybe been in South Korea a while and
watched a lot of the best break dancers
in the world
go all right that was fun so I think the
MVP of this video well there's two of
them there's Mr zachi and there's Mr Bob
and they just did a great job all around
I would call them an A or a minus effort
other than the fact that the back and
hamstrings were entirely missing I think
it um you know who who knows I'm cutting
them the benefit it out there's other
workouts to to catch that shit so uh
that was really excellent excellent
technique demonstration very effective
way to train for general fitness um as
far as Mr Chris Hemsworth's situation
where he does a lot of kind of Proto
break dance fighting dancing um dope
cool nice way to burn C if you like that
sort of thing nothing magical about it
it's not going to make you look like
Chris Hemsworth unfortunately if you
really want to look like Chris worth yet
an unbelievably wildly overqualified
plastic surgeon because God damn that
man ising goodlooking but if that's not
in your ballpark then you can just do
traditional hypertrophy oriented
training just like Grandma did just like
Mom did uh the thing is is that uh we
actually broke down Thor's physique
Chris Hemsworth's physique and also the
real Thor and we have a video uh about
that so you click on that video uh you
can actually get a real world for real
for real workout that in the most time
efficient and
scientifically logical manner will get
you to look the most like Thor that you
could um this ain't it but but these are
great workouts for regular folks and I
honestly think that's probably the
center app uh target market demographic
is like just regular folks that have
seen the Thor movies and they're like I
want a little slice of that and a slice
of that that app will almost certainly
give you if you're a bit more extreme
bit more hardcore you want to get really
jacked and really lean and really tan
then uh the RB hypertrophy app might be
a little bit more up your alley so give
it a thought but I'm not going to scuzz
money off Mr Chris Hemsworth and we got
to promote our own products on their own
May so if you don't like the app Us in
any case I rate this uh a Chris
Hemsworth is incredibly good-looking out
of 10 I've been Dr Mike and I'll see you
next time all right guys thanks for
hanging in there that was really fun
YouTube thinks you should click on this
video because what happens is you click
on it you watch the video the ads hit
monetize by Lamborghinis by Butlers are
happy and then I'm happy that's
it