folks it is the bi-weekly q a dr james
dr mike here and i feel like we just got
to get right into the juicy story of
this news cycle dr mike in instagram
jail what is going on over there my
goodness
i'll straight up saying some of us mf is
a lawless
you can't control us
mark zuckerberg please i'm kidding
please mercy
for the love of everything holy mercy
that makes me think of a brave heart
mercy mercy william
freedom
things i'd rather not see again
what i mean i i'm assuming it was
because of the conversation exchange
that you had that's that seems to be the
timeline that i interpreted
a lot of people have their hypotheses i
do as well i'm the closest to the
problem
i'm not close to the problem the
insiders on instagram are closest to the
problem
um
i made a post that lost me
a lot of followers it was the side
uh relaxed pose which was like the glute
striations from the side thing and that
was completely nude though no actually
no genitals technically doesn't
violating policy but i think maybe that
a lot of people got after that and
complained and then there was also a
post where i
shared a trans joke that i made up uh
with my friend janae who's my jiu jitsu
training partner
fucking trans
and she was like this is hilarious and i
was like should i share this and she's
like i don't know man
fuck it and i said fuck it and then the
thing is the joke was on for days and
people were having an interaction
there's of course the usual suspects of
offended people nothing too crazy um and
actually like the sjws didn't seem super
offended at the joke one lady was like
not cancelable but just not funny like
that was kind of the worst thing anyone
said um
and then um like i think you could say
that about your entire life lady
well my response was like do you
randomly go out of your way to tell
people that like you didn't think that
stuff was funny like i said and she
never responded well everyone piled dog
piled on her after so you know poor lady
but um there was also a thing where like
right before my account was locked
locked out to me there was a thing where
it's like you're published from
sorry mel's left
it was like uh
your post from
like may 2020 is under review and
because like
if people complain about you which like
i had 185k number followers a lot of
people potentially just complained about
everything it's just like law of large
numbers at that point
and um there's posts going back like two
years that are still under review
because they're so backlogged i don't
blame instagram for any of this is their
job is like monumentally difficult uh
and they're that they put humans on this
but they're usually humans that they
don't english is not a first language i
think they work in a lot of other
countries which is totally cool but you
know with nuance and sarcasm there's not
even an attempt i think there not for
those people but policy wise to even
discriminate against between sarcasm and
reality
so i had a post that was being looked at
it said like we're reviewing your post
from may 2020 it was like a picture of
my face i must have said something
cheeky or something and then then my
shit went black white black white black
white and i was like you can't log into
your instagram and then i was like
trying to relog in it was like user not
found that was it so like the whole like
people were like well
are you in
like communication are you appealing
it's physically impossible to appeal
without me being able to log in so
do i know some people maybe are they
pulling strings behind the scenes maybe
but these corporations through their
credit tend to run in a pretty
non-string pull-able way which is good
this was very low corruption uh but also
you know like if the ruling is thus then
it looks like i lost my account forever
i'm not terribly beat up about it it
stinks right but um i have a new count
come follow me there it's just dr mike
as rappel uh made it simple this time
and also um you know like
like a real talk
you should have left that on i would
like to hear the audio
um you know like t you know full
transparency i don't make any money on
instagram it's great for popularization
of ideas and linking people into stuff
that makes money but like youtube we
actually monetize which is sweet um you
know so and youtube's so much more
informative like if someone was like
you're ho actually my whole instagram is
gone am i really upset about it like i
don't know i had a lot of good memories
on it like of you in 2015 you know what
i mean like like scroll back and look at
life that is there anything as far as
like substantive value that helps other
people yeah they're sure but nobody
scrolls anyway if youtube got deleted
i'd be oh my god like
jesus like there's so much useful
information on here that helps people
that would be the sad thing so i'm not
super beat up about it but i we'll see
you know if it never comes back
so like for me with seems bizarre and if
any of you guys have ever listened to
joe rogan recently he's been like kind
of on a tirade about this particular
issue is just like so your account just
gets
like deleted or is is blocked or
whatever and
there's not really any course for you
there's no there's no there's no
opportunity for you to get to the root
of the problem or say like what
explicitly about this post under review
was problematic or you know it's because
you just kind of left
shit out of luck and i think that's the
shitty part where it's like there's
seemingly nothing you can do even though
there is like a
theoretical
um appeal process it just seems shitty
um and it's it's happening to people on
youtube a lot who do rely on the
monetization right so that's kind of
like why you post political stuff on
youtube you will be demonetized very
likely and it's probably just on party
lines exactly as you would expect
um which which is really probably less
to do with the politics of the people
that work at these corporations and more
to do with the fact that folks on a
certain side of the aisle i'm not going
to say who they just complain a lot more
you know they go straight to the source
like it's really karen's you know like
karen's we'll get at you uh
although you also play devil's advocate
they say it's not my instagram it's
theirs they own all the architecture
they own all the data um i paid a
whopping total of zero fucking money to
them ever as gay if i'm you know
really going to say oh this is mine like
really
so if netflix canceled my account with
nothing to say i'd be like what the fuck
i pay 7.99 or whatever every month but
instagram facebook my shit is free man
we should be so lucky to have them now
you know like i'm sure they're attending
to these things on the margins and if
they get a lot of reviews that like hey
this is getting to be a real repressive
platform and there's just no
transparency i'm sure they're working
hard to make all those changes and make
them better so you know
on the end like it's funny like zoom
right
like you got do you pay for zoom james
sorry if i'm putting you on the spot uh
rp has like a corporate account that we
we use
which costs approximately nothing
and gives us live digital video
conversation with anyone in the world at
any time like that's absurd what an
absurd value problem so any amount of
bitching we do has to always be
really really moderated and it's
instagram it's free i mean you could god
like am i upset
here's here's one of the things i'm most
upset at it's the um
uh what's it called like so one of my
pictures that got flagged was me
uh i made a picture of myself just like
captioning my face on the bottom of the
squat
like that and then i just took a picture
of a toad which looked exactly like me
it was like
am i a toad and that got flagged for
bullying and harassment of myself
like so
it was in the algorithm thing or
somebody who hates me like flagged it i
i'm rather certain there's a few folks
out there that hate me enough that they
just report every single one of my posts
uh or or most of them which is fine like
you know with a large following i'm
gonna tend to have people like that but
stuff like that like i've never there's
not um a list anywhere on my instagram
of like uh things i was reported for
appeals that i've won or lost or reasons
it just doesn't exist so i don't even
know where the toad thing went like did
i win that one did i lose it i know
there's like an x strikes and you're out
rule i don't know how many strikes it is
i don't know how many strikes i ever had
like every now and again it would just
report a post you go so you keep this up
your account will be deleted i'm like
keep it up for how long
deleted like forever because it used to
be i think they used to do like weekly
bans or like
they tell you to cool down for a month
now it's like forever and it's like yeah
it's a lot of mystery there which i'm
entitled to know nothing because it's
free but it'd be neat if we need if i
could know something i will say um
my new account and if my old account
ever comes back i'm gonna do way fewer
jokes and wait i'm going to be myself a
lot less and present much more of a
corporate face which is great for the
folks following this channel because you
get all the same information but you're
not going to see as much of my
personality because that shit gets you
canceled nowadays will you see more of
it on youtube yeah you'll see some but
to the people that ask us about like oh
talk more about politics like
motherfucker are you out of your mind
like hell no hell no would we live in an
in a society that generally tolerates
the sort of um various political
opinions uh great i'll tell you all
about it until then
no there's no politics there's just
worshiping emperor jabba the hutt as who
is behind me as you can see um in uh in
in out in uh in diagram form it's the
best that's the single best piece of art
i've ever seen i know i saw it was on a
woot deal and i was like i must have
that um
yeah i hear you on like the fact that
it's free you don't own it it's just one
of those things where like if they would
have just sent you a notice saying you
violated our terms of service and are
canceled your account has been
deactivated or whatever at least then
you have some clarity it's just always
this like ambiguous mystery of like what
is happening and i think that's what's
frustrating it's like just be
transparent about it like even if
uh you don't think you violated their
terms and they just send you a
notification saying you did and you
canceled at least you know why because
now it's like you're in purgatory at
this point you just have no idea what is
getting flagged it could like you said
it could just be some troll or it could
be something that you're doing that
you're just not being made aware of so
you have no idea that's annoying
yeah so that's
i'm not gonna bitch too much we'll see
where it all goes
uh well there you have it folks i know i
was itching to get this information too
we almost started talking about it off
air but i was like no no no we gotta get
the world must know that the the
it's like the lord of the rings the
journey to mordor which is instagram for
michael oh man
that's you know who's uh who's who i'm
photo clearly
you would be sam weiss then oh man hey
sorry james you brought up maybe smeagle
or anyone but saying oh no what really
oh precious no that's you you're smeagle
you're the you're the one who wants to
post on instagram
and you're smeagle i will say i will say
i am making my wife re-watch the lord of
the rings trilogies i told you that last
time
and in the two towers
smeagol gets into a physical altercation
with samwise and has the fastest back
take i've ever seen in a fight he just
loops right in puts the hooks in and
even puts in a choke and then bites them
i'm like yo damn who trained you
motherfucker but then at other times
samwise just kind of throws them around
and i'm like you know it's not clear to
me what the power to weight ratio is in
this guy like this that's what i was 20
pounds or was it 100
sam has a huge like weight and advantage
on smeagol and he's a gardener so he's
not like totally fat he's got a little
muscle going on right like come on
fc fight card like doubtful pluses
gardener
that sucks
that's yeah
questions let's get to questions after
that shit show i'll start
all right so first up is probably what
you're looking at i couldn't have fucked
this up that bad the kids sky
and i will read you think he's a rapper
i hope so do you
just eat the kid is there like is it
just am i just fucking old like boomer
at this point even though i'm not a
boomer but like it seems like all
rappers have a fascination with like
kind of like um like juvenile
type names like the little so and so are
like young so and so like they're all
like like not juvenile the actual
artists like like juvenile themed names
like the kid
and a little young
no no for real here's my two alternate
alternate hypotheses hypothesis one is
they really do want to be like billy the
kid aka the kid
like jay-z still does that still calls
himself a kid even though he's like
fucking 100. um but the alternate
hypothesis there is that they all start
out when they're actually kids like 12
or 13 and if you're talented rapper
you're probably real good when you're
really young which shocks people and
then they call you like little boozy
little bluesy probably didn't want to be
a little boozy they were like what's
your name he's like boozy and he goes on
stage and he shuts down eight rappers in
a row and they're like little boozy and
he's like fuck god damn it why am i only
12 years old i don't want to be little
anything and then they're like that's
your record album name that's where you
make money now you said little boozy i
was thinking about somebody who goes on
stage and drinks a lot that's like their
talent
probably not wrong
wouldn't uh nominate him
yeah that's easy they're like rap you're
like what
what i'm just getting drunk
all right
it's guy
says asks rather hey docs i've heard
doctor mike say a couple of times on
another podcast that he's leaning
towards the idea that active rest gets
the same thing done as maintenance
phases
at a much shorter time i've really
listened to the new derived strong
around table on a re-sensitization and i
think you said that activers can replace
maintenance phases unless you are having
some nagging joint tendon pain
does that mean that unless you have any
joint pain you can use active rest
phases in place of maintenance phases as
you know specific times or one might be
more appropriate the other thank you so
much for the content you guys have been
pumping out i learned 90 of the things i
know from this channel and your books
keep up the good work i'm sure that hope
that means in the problem sport science
because if it's like cartoons or how to
talk to people you have the worst
teachers of all time yes all right so uh
yes uh so i do stand by most of that the
quick addendum is actually i think james
hoffman corrected me once on the podcast
or on this whatever we have here webinar
um
the other real big reason for doing
maintenance uh was two
the one big one is you have diet fatigue
and like you want to do another fat loss
phase you can't just active rest through
that like two weeks later you're going
to be starving so you need more time and
that's a great time for maintenance and
another one is you just kind of want to
live and eat and train then not worry so
much about massing or cutting just want
to build some strength
you know that's when maintenance is a
really good idea but but yeah if you're
doing it for its phasic ability to
reduce fatigue unless you have a lot of
joint connective issue
pain that's going to need some more time
at lower volumes active rest really does
do a really good job of more or less
reducing almost every source of fatigue
a ton such that if your program doesn't
call for maintenance maybe you don't do
it and almost the ideal time is like
after a fat loss phase and then before a
massing phase if you take an active rest
phase you know you might be good to do a
massing phase and not have to worry
about maintaining yeah you crushed a ton
of really high volume training at the
end of fat loss and will you be volume
resistant we'll see after two weeks of
active rest probably not
you're probably going to be real
sensitive to volume same thing is at the
top of you know a mass gaining phase if
you take two weeks of active rest you
can transition right into fat loss phase
we would like you to go a little longer
just to sort of settle the muscle in
there but maybe two weeks of maintenance
two weeks of active rest and you may be
good to go um so that that's my thoughts
on the matter james anything i said that
doesn't rub you the right way no no all
good and so my correct me if i'm wrong
here but i think generally when you when
you're talking about active rest in this
context you're really specifically
talking about it from like the training
side of things not necessarily like the
diet and training combination launch
adjustments just bodybuilding training
actually not even any other training
yeah yeah so exactly so kind of like uh
i think mike and i have both changed our
tune slightly over time in that we find
that yeah you know a couple weeks of
active rest gets you at least on the
training side of like being sensitive
and having productive training um a
couple weeks gets you pretty much right
there wherever you need to go you don't
really need a whole month necessarily
whereas there are some dietary
considerations which do have more of
like a longitudinal effect or at least
that we suspect have a longitudinal
effect so we might say from the from the
perspective of somebody who's doing like
a periodized diet and training program
just logistically instead of
differentiating those two things and
saying okay i got like a training demand
that's two weeks and i have a diet
demand that's maybe four or five weeks
sometimes it's just easier to put them
together and say yeah maybe you didn't
need a maintenance phase from a training
perspective but it just falls into your
schedule better so just do it that way
but yeah you might not need to at all
and depending on how your diet and stuff
is set up you can get a lot out of those
active rest phases more than we used to
think so it's definitely a useful tool
all right next up is henrik anderson who
is just below
awesome he asks a an amazing question
is masseter aka jaw hypertrophy actually
or jaw muscle to be more specific uh
actually something that can enhance
facial attractiveness i understand that
being lean over your jawline but if the
muscle itself is large it can be more
defined at a higher percent body fat
just like abs thus resulting in a more
defined jaw and maybe i'll finally get
the female attention i've always wanted
anyways if mascara for training is
something worth doing how would one even
go about doing it chewing gum buying one
of those absurd ball chewing things
thanks for answering my dumb ass
questions doc henrik it's our sincere
partner everything i have to say this is
like kind of a low ball one for for
henrik he usually asks like very very
good and thought-provoking questions
this is still a good one but it's you
know i'm just saying it's it's down a
little bit from his usual high quality
and the best part is he knows he knows
it yeah he's not yeah
so i can i can say something so first of
all hypertrophy of any muscle any
skeletal muscle is absolutely possible
um how you would go about it is
something i've given almost no thought
to
uh taking a lot of drugs hypertrophies
everything and including your face like
explains jay cutler's face uh about 50
other faces in pro bodybuilding um
another thing is like generally
doing that during training actually does
so if you especially if you get a mouth
guard your your jaw will fucking grow um
eating a lot of food never hurt i i've
literally had jaw pumps and cramps
trying to eat mass gaining meals and i'm
like damn it what the hell is going on
and that causes hypertrophy but there's
probably a more intelligent way to go
about it some kind of resistance chewing
thing um
funny idea but it probably would work
now
does it enhance facial attractiveness so
there's actually a couple components
here
um it depends on what you're looking for
in a face
when when uh folks are looking for a
chisel jawline that's not the same thing
as people who are looking for a jacked
face jacked jaw
chisel jawline includes the bones of the
jaw and i would say primarily is the
bones of the jaw and that's something
you have to do just from combination of
decent genetics slash well if anyone
gets lean enough they get a lead jaw and
that's what a lot of people are looking
for now a jacked ultra masculine jaw you
can engineer for yourself if you do
hypertrophy for your masseter muscles uh
i mean i guess i'm kind of the ultimate
in head and face hypertrophy because
holy shit
and funny enough and people of like i
think derek moore plays more dates made
a made a dick at me once in his videos
all in good fun um that it's you know he
had to hit some like italian looking guy
who seems to i'm not sure what his
relationship is to training or anything
but he
said that he was clearly a sign of
long-term growth hormone abuse um
hilariously enough the fucking full
transparency like i i've never up until
last year i've never done any more than
four units which just anyone who knows
growth is like kind of a joke um usually
two to three and then recently actually
this past year i bumped up to six units
and well that's the 15 new pounds of
muscle that literally is the answer um
but also like that's still a comically
absurd so to put this in perspective
that there have been pros that have run
anywhere from 12 to 24 units for 10
years at a time which is comedy right so
and also there's pictures of me on
facebook with this exact same
musculature
before i even touched anabolics nothing
it's just like yeah you know plus if
everyone got this through growth hormone
abuse how come i'm the only
motherfucker's head looks like this
i literally like ronnie coleman's head
doesn't look like this he used to take
36 units for years at a time so uh yeah
that's the thing um
uh
if you want the masculine look it can be
achieved now here's the thing some
females like a fucking masculine look
and then having a muscular and lean jaw
will absolutely get you further with
them uh oh females and males whatever
we're inclusive right some people
uh man they like more of that uh james
was that stupid vampire series where
everyone was essentially a twink um a
twilight twilight some motherfuckers
like that twilight shit where you
basically look like you're a male made
of like paper and if someone blows
you'll just flutter away uh they just
love that shit hipsters out here getting
fucking pussy on top of the pussy and
that's just some the thing in the gay
community too some people like muscle
bears some people like twinks and like
if you're a twink and you're like i need
to get manlier and have a bigger jaw
like good luck you're not gonna be
getting laid as much with exactly the
people you want to get laid with so it
really is if you like the specific look
and if the people you're trying to
attract like that look it'll work
marginally uh but it doesn't replace the
jaw it's just kind of uh
something you do extra on top james
okay so i have a couple just tangents
sorry in advance uh shout out to the
crimson chin who was a character on
fairly oddparents i think he was from
cincinnati uh
yeah chin themed superhero also so i was
working on my book and i made a a
comment about jay cutler um in my book
totally unrelated to chin size or
anything about how he was jacked and my
my good friend steve who is really great
at editing is editing some of the
chapters and he was he made a note that
said like jake cutler got jacked what
the fuck are you talking about
he was thinking of jay cutler the
chicago bear former chicago bears
quarterback who obviously has the same
name and i did like clarify i was like
oh yeah there's actually a bodybuilding
jay cutler um
yeah so um i i don't claim to be have
expertise in this in any way i heard a
couple people talking on podcasts and
their names are escaping me at the
moment and there are some generalizables
um like kind of um androgenic signs that
that do tend to score high for a female
attractiveness and i remember jaw like
having a jo
a well-defined like jawline being part
of that
my
thought on that this is just and again
like don't don't take this out of
context i think this was like on a very
broad like population basis like
generally females found like a
well-defined jaw as like a positive
masculine trait that they found
attracted very very generalized kind of
stuff
but i think my my interpretation of that
also is like don't be fat and don't have
a neck beard right like if you can if
you i mean if you got that going on you
don't have to have like a jay cutler
fucking jaw to look attractive but if
you have like a fat neck and like a
disgusting neck beard like that's going
to lose points for sure
outside of that like yeah you can do
like they do have those like two
things man i don't know how much of a
difference that's going to make or like
how much effort has to go into it yeah
no like god you've got much interference
with the rest of your life
because you got to imagine i don't
actually know but i would imagine you're
most of your mastication muscles are
fairly slow twitch so i mean that's
going to fairly well trained because
you're fucking using all the time
exactly it's going to it's going to be
kind of the equivalent to training
calves or forearms you know
so it's just painful and annoying so i
would say man it's probably not worth
your time i think just like not being
fat and being well groomed is probably
gonna
gets you most of the way there
if you want the best chances with the
ladies just look as close to
uh as close as uh possible to joey sat
very sad strength on youtube that's what
i consider objectively the best looking
person i've ever seen in my life i love
all these
80s themed shenanigans too
can you imagine being a female of
reproductive age and just experiencing
joey's presence it's like 63 275 with
abs and he's like super nice and
handsome and is considerate and i'm just
like i'd be like i don't even know
what's going on am i yes
he has kind of a weird not weird
physique i guess but like he's he's like
a massive and jacked guy but he doesn't
kind of come off as like a massive and
jacked guy he has like a nice
proportions he's leaning doesn't like
you see him and you're like he kind of
he's like a a large version of a fuck
boy in some ways yeah it just looks good
and you're like but then you see him you
get you when you really get a
scale of the guy like oh wow he's
actually a massive person but like he
doesn't look like he's a humongous
person because his proportions are
fishing with dynamite
all right man that was like a really
huge tangent
am i still straight
who cares all right
charlie f there's the next stop
he asks hey guys what are your thoughts
on additional slash feet or workouts
that are low intensity often target
specific muscles for a few sets after
the main workout for example hitting a
full leg day around 3 pm and then later
at 8 pm hitting a few sets of biceps
thanks in advance so i'll give you the
short version um
if you had to grow a muscle as much as
possible
would you do feet feeder workouts the
answer is you'd probably be very serious
about making sure to hit really high
quality workouts and then have plenty of
really good rest and then repeat
um feet or workouts are just a way to
increase volume and i think where feeder
workouts really came from is grow splits
uh i had always had the the problem of
being insufficiently high frequency to
maximize especially small muscle
development sure bro splits decent
they're pretty good for your quads it's
going to take them like a week to heal
anyway um you know biceps jesus you know
the next day you could be training them
again no matter how you train them so i
think feeder workouts
sort of ecologically worked really well
for people and they swore by them
because they just weren't doing enough
actually good workouts but if you train
your biceps hard two to four times a
week feeder workout is just making you
tired for your real workouts and they're
kind of like junk volume so a few
workouts if you have a very low
frequency program and you can't get to
the gym a lot but you have some weights
at home and you want to do some extra
work buy some forms try something a lot
yeah they work great but they're really
just another way
to sum up a decent amount of volume and
higher levels of frequency in the
context of a weekly paradigm and if you
can get to the gym and actually train
those muscles super hard then feeder
workouts are either superfluous and
pointless or actually negative because
they interfere with recovery adaptation
for what you want to do
games yeah i totally agree and so like i
think kind of what dr mike's getting at
there is like the idea of the feeder
workout is silly when you could just
program your workouts as such with just
higher frequencies or just you know more
so like for example uh the way that i
set up
my training is that i always train
dealts on my dedicated leg days and i
usually come and do that as like a pm
session it's not a feeder workout it's
just my way of spreading out my upper
body training volume and hitting my
delts um in such a way that they're not
toasted from all the pressing or pulling
that i'm doing on the other days so um i
think you can just kind of set up a
higher frequency split for a lot of
muscle groups like arms and delts are a
great example of that you might train
those three to four times a week and yes
they might fall on leg days and that's
not necessarily like oh i had some extra
time or effort that i could put out
today i'm going to go hit this delts
it's like no you can just say like i
need to hit doubts four times a week and
that just so happens if twice it falls
on an upper body day and twice it falls
on a lower body day that's perfectly
fine yeah
and that sounds like a feeder workout
but
technically speaking i guess it's not so
yeah because it's just programmed that
way and not like an impromptu like oh
i'm gonna come back later because i got
some time on my hands yeah yep 100
oh all right next up is r space p
so mofo you've got rp and
either mario looks like mario because
his hat he's got a cowboy hat mario what
the fuck
how dare you how dare you
it's a quote uh greta thundberg
how dare you
stealing our future from our children
her accent's so cool i could listen to
her talk all day just give her a shield
and a a porn hat and a viking sword and
we're good i'll i'll i'll hate global
warming
i don't want to hear by the way at all
transparency i'm not a climate denier so
please stop posting ridiculous comments
in the thread
my like my my previous thought on her
was like why do we have a child trying
to pretend to be an expert on anything
now she's an adult and now now we can
say this person is uninformed
that's right
she went from like you're too stupid to
make fun of two you're dumb enough to
make fun of right now you're old enough
to be made fun of yes
all right uh
hi guys i was wondering if you progress
with an exercise that you have twice or
more in a week for example i have side
raises two times a week with week um
week one with three are the first
session i do 15 reps of four kilograms
on the second week in week one of side
raises do i do one wrap up or just match
the first session
or do i just choose between these two
options depending on how i'm feeling i
know this question is very detailed but
probably not that important since i've
been wondering about it but i've been
wondering about it for a few days
so i think you left something out
of the question which is the detail of
what you do in your second session
am i just missing that james or so i i
think he's assuming like a progressive
overload between
session one and session two within week
one yes i would do that yeah so james
and i generally suggest that you do
something just a little different even
if it's rep range so what we say is you
can absolutely use the same exercise uh
twice a week sometimes even three times
although three times is kind of absurd
um but you should have some differences
in there like one day you do sets of
roughly 10 and the next day you do sets
of roughly 20. and then you
independently auto regulate them week to
week to week to week so it doesn't
really matter what happened uh for
monday on thursday but for monday last
monday then you go up from there so you
know four kilograms 15 reps next time
you do you know 16 reps then 17 and 18
and then the other time of the week you
do eight kilograms for sets of eight and
then next that's eight is nine ten
eleven so it's independent and it should
be a little something different i
wouldn't treat them kind of i would
treat them sort of on paper as different
exercises with their own progression
schemes james
yeah absolutely that's what i was going
to say is just treat them as two
independent workouts that are auto
regulated not necessarily dependent i
mean they're obviously interconnected
because whatever you do during the week
affects what happens downstream but just
treat them as if they were two separate
entities and adjust accordingly
next up just below actually is sushi
rocks a person who apparently likes
rocks as their sushi choice gross
we've talked about on separate occasions
that lack of sleep interferes
hypertrophy and non-steroidal
anti-inflammatories interfere with
hypertrophy which interferes more as
someone who is dealing with chronic pain
about two years now i am unable to get
in more than 60 cent hours of sleep per
night due to pain unless i take a
moderate dose of events that's prior to
sleeping i'm currently working with my
pcp primary care physician on figuring
out what's going on i i'm not the drug
pcp that would be a hell of a road
um i'm currently doing pcp so i feel
pretty good
that eliminates the need for the
headsets it really does uh and the need
for not getting shot by 12 police
officers and then finally dying of 32
bullet wounds um in the meantime vote
winner fearless in my perfect game
getting five six hours of sleep per
night picking a moderate dose of enzymes
quite a bit i would say at the margins
that you're dealing with um i would take
the um sets to get more sleep sleep is
way way more powerful you have to really
take n sets like crazy to the point
where they're probably really bad for
your kidneys in order to see meaningful
hypertrophy reductions um but uh
sleep will fuck you it'll fuck you soon
it'll fuck you asap james uh that's my
take i think you're probably more adept
here so please do am i am i interpreting
this correctly he's kind of saying like
i can't get better sleep because pain
keeps me awake and i so i'm kind of okay
yeah definitely with the sleep so the
nsaids you know have a cellular effect
right which has been documented to be
you know small but but noticeable um
sleep has both direct and indirect
effects the direct effects will of
course affect the cellular level uh and
how much anabolism and recovery you're
going to get but then it also affects
you at the indirect level which is how
much effective training can you do
because you're fatigued all the time so
you get a one-two punch with lack of
sleep so by a landslide sleep would be
more important the effect of the nsaids
i mean people blow this out of
proportion i think brad's posted about
this a couple of times
i mean yes um it isn't a franchise for
those of you who want to follow him
sorry uh
i'm trying to remember
the last couple that he posts i don't
remember but the the take home here is
sometimes the effect reaches statistical
significance sometimes it doesn't i
think there's definitely a practical
effect where if you look at the effects
of nsaids across a lot of different
studies the trend always seems to be a
small
but present effect in kind of inhibiting
some hypertrophy that you would get but
again the effect is so small
man i wouldn't i wouldn't worry about it
at all okay i wouldn't even think twice
about it
yeah but hopefully you're so little it
matters
especially if you're in pain all the
fucking time like what else are you
supposed like i mean it's obviously
interfering with
and if it's if it's causing you to not
be able to sleep i'm sure it's affecting
you in other aspects of your life as
well who gives a shit the effect is
small
if you're able to sleep you'll be able
to train that much harder you probably
can't you'll probably compensate for the
for the the negative effect of the
nsaids with more productive lifestyle
and training at that point so i would
just go for it
yep excellent answer next up is ct 7567
who occurs just at the bottom end of the
document there james or youtube's girl
yeah that's a clone trooper good to see
you good to see you
in the republic
asking questions
um all right he says hello doc's winner
specialization phase does it make sense
to have a higher surplus on the days
that you are training the muscle group
that is being specialized for example if
back is the focus instead of aiming for
a static plus 250 surplus the whole week
instead of a higher surplus of back data
and small circles on the other days
while still keeping the same weekly
surplus
thank you in advance and thank you for
doing these well it's our pleasure i
would say that
muscle growth occurs on a rather
continuous basis remember muscle growth
doesn't especially occur on the day you
train it starts to increase towards the
end of that day lasts for another day
two or three and then the curve comes
back down to baseline um which means if
you change back two or three times a
week then the curves are always kind of
elevated um and what you do want to do
is make sure you're well fed for that
workout and really do whatever it takes
to put in a ton of energy for that
workout and then you also want to do is
make sure your wealth out after that
workout and really like you know if
there's one week you go dancing late at
night and stay up or one day a week
don't put your back day before that day
or after that day right but other than
that it's a continual uh low level of
surplus probably does you the best good
yeah and dr mike has actually talked
about this um a number of different
times like those types of fluctuations
are needlessly tedious and kind of
within the margin of measurement error
of the user anyway so it's like if
you're trying to add like okay
you know 100 more calories on this
particular day and then i'm taking it um
you know it's just
your
the level of fussiness is high and like
the level of accuracy is low so you're
better off just making weekly progress
as mike said and he's also said
hypertrophy is kind of a slow steady
thing over time so that level of tdm
probably doesn't get you anywhere extra
and it's just a lot of fuss for you
yep
next up is john that purple j right
there so don't talk about miles
uh he says apparently polymer cooling
and that's when you you cool your hands
essentially with a nifty device between
work sets
during rest between sets increases work
capacity and actually it seems to do so
in the studies that i've seen
drastically does this translate to
something actually valuable to society
like hypertrophy dr craig heller slash
dr huber podcast so it's actually james
you can click on the two replies there
though something interesting was written
um very good to hear that eric trexler
was stronger by science who directly
worked on one of these studies pretty
thoroughly debunked its potential
applications on a recent podcast that's
very bad eric's very smart and very
particular and if you work directly at
studies still says it doesn't mean a
whole lot i would take that with a big
grain of salt another thing real quick
before i let james take a shot at the
title because he seems quite excited
about this topic um
being that he's had to he has to cool
his palms from chronic masturbation
habits yes not training alternate you're
like i know everything there is to know
about polymer cooling um so what i would
say is this and i actually answered i
think the same question came up in one
of the just the rp vids and i was
answering as renaissance periodization
and the answer is this uh those studies
have really only come from like one lab
primarily and there haven't been a ton
of them
and the in gains in work capacity seem
really impressive and that triggers the
old scientific
diligence bells we'd like to see
other labs confirm this we'd like to see
different kinds of workouts done we'd
like to see work capacity impressive
results repeated and built replication
is the one of the core foundations of
science
and uh lastly we'd like to see this
actually present itself as real world
outcomes so for example at least for
someone like let's say
um we have a test where's how many leg
press reps with 225 can you do until you
fail and we have groups that are
training
with five total sets of leg press every
you know you know twice a week five
total sets the weight stays the same
they just try to crank up more reps
every time do that for eight weeks one
group gets the cooling one group does
not um or one group gets some kind of
placebo like here's this muscle pill
that'll make you strong like sugar pill
doesn't do shit so they both have the
placebo effect and then we'd like to see
like the palmer cooling group at least
have like you know five to ten more reps
at the end of that whole thing
actually improved
uh work capacity directly from having
higher work capacity and training that
hasn't been done yet and until it's done
and unfortunately
i got triggered i think it was
huberman's lab that put it out and it
was this journal it was a journal of
disruptive science or something like
that but uh it was like okay all science
is disruptive the whole thing was
nonsense as far as i could tell
naming that journal and putting articles
in there uh i'm being a bit harsh but it
was just it hit me all wrong
and in the articles
relative sessions
yeah it was really like sponsored by the
loosely affiliated society of anarchists
right exactly but it was like you know
it was like a journal that was going to
be publishing things that were like
against the status quo which is it's not
how science works at all
um you need a replication another thing
they they made tons of references in the
actual written article so like this is
as much of an effect as we see with
steroids and this is as powerful as
steroids
to say that straight face that have any
experience in athletics is kind of
strange maybe it's true but i would put
that probability as unknown slash low
so that that's my take on the matter so
far james
yeah i've looked into this um
just as an ongoing thing and as part of
the recovery book and blah blah blah i
haven't read the most recent papers so
full disclosure on that but let me i i
do have a strong opinion on what polymer
cooling is used for so folks
here's what polymer cooling is great for
um thermoregulation so what you have
with your hands is a very low um
thickness tissue right so your hands
don't have a lot of muscle don't have a
lot of fat they just have a lot of
connective tissue and a lot of
vascularization so a lot of arteries and
veins that are very close to the surface
of the skin and not a lot in between
right whereas like um your pecs or your
legs there's just a lot of meat on there
there's a lot of muscle there's a lot of
fat all sorts of stuff going on so what
we found is that if you try to use a
temperature mediated
therapy whether it's heat or in this
case cold if you apply it to the hands
it doesn't have to penetrate very far to
actually affect all the vasculature in
your hands so normally when we look at
something like ice bath or something
like that
if we're looking at it at the muscle
level the temperature actually has to
penetrate through all that muscle to
actually have an effect whereas when you
cool the hands what's essentially
happening is you're having a pretty
drastic temperature change at the
vascular which is right there at the
level of the skin which is then actually
just pumping through your body so you
get like a really kind of unique
systemic thermoregulatory effect from
cooling your hands if you are too hot
all the time so if you look in the
exercise physiology literature this is
typically investigated as something
along the lines of critical core
temperature
so to say that it improves work capacity
and in my opinion at this point in time
is misleading what the hand cooling and
this is where i want to give it some
praise what it allows you to do is
actually thermoregulate better
throughout exercise so the populations
where this is useful is for people whose
get too hot and can no longer continuing
exercise so a couple training in
thailand
training in thailand endurance you know
in the endurance activity in the heat or
if you're if you're branch warrant and
you work out at that shitty texas gym
where it's a thousand degrees i dare you
bro metroflex is a religion metroflex
that's it uh uh so i kind of the the
short version is like when when your
thermal regulation is a limiting factor
to your ability to perform exercise this
is something that can keep you in the
game longer so here's the ideal
situation fucking nfl players who are
playing outside and it's like 100
degrees right you guys see them they
have the air-conditioned tube that they
put in their shirts you could do it on
the hands right is it going to improve
their work capacity
in my opinion no what it's improving is
their ability to thermoregulate in
really bad temperature conditions
whether it's really hot or really cold
simply because you can have a greater
access to all the vasculature through
your hands than you would if you put it
like on any meteor part of your body so
i don't think this has a huge place in
the hypertrophy world in my opinion
that could you know of course my opinion
might change on that if if i read some
more papers and they seem promising but
at the current time and again full
disclosure i haven't read the most
recent ones um this does seem like
something that is useful for people who
are exercising in hot conditions or or
even cold conditions potentially um it
does not seem to be a useful day-to-day
training tool
let's bring question up next from john
phillips that's the next j down got it
let's get empirical colon is there any
known benefit to doing exercises for
example squats and curls in front of a
mirror or is it just pure vanity play
a vanity play sounds like something
perversely more sexual
or another way to ask it can real-time
feedback improve form or is that not how
the brain works uh for that matter is
real-time feedback more like feedback it
makes form execution worse so a great
question a pretty straightforward answer
here
there are absolutely conditions in which
using a mirror can help your technique
um
so for example like if you're doing
smith machine spots or something
squatting in front of a mirror can
really let you know like is your chest
still upright because sometimes you're
like i think i'm looking okay but you
can't tell
uh it's right away it's not like video
where you have to look at it later so it
can help it will help you greatly to
have your technique really really set in
when you have a mirror in front of you
when that mirror goes away you are going
to be blind as a bat and you're going to
suck for at least a few reps or sets if
not weeks at the exercise same exercise
that you no longer have access to a
mirror for
so it's one of those things where like
when power lifters train and gyms that
have mirrors they turn away from the
mirror in the rack so they don't start
visually cueing themselves based on
their mirror because when you go to the
meat there's no mirror you literally
have like problems with balance at super
high loads because you're like i usually
see stuff but i don't see anything
anymore
if you're training in a bodybuilding gym
or for bodybuilding purposes a regular
gym and it has a mirror in front of a
machine and you notice that training
with the mirror helps you and your
execution great the only thing i would
say is don't look at the mirror all the
time and really focus on your
positioning once your position is good
in the mirror just double check every
now and again in the mirror but also
bring your mind's eye to play on your
mind muscle connection so don't just be
like oh externally it looks good yeah
make sure your chest is still up in the
mirror like every three reps you can
check to make sure your chest hasn't
caved in on squats but between those
reps you should be focusing on is the
contraction and stretching my quads what
i want it to feel like no mirror can
tell you that so as long as you're
paying attention to my muscle connection
the mirror can be a good tool but it's
limited by the fact that if you take it
away gee yeah it is actually a crutch
and crutches help you walk when they go
away you need an adjustment time so
that's that's my thought on that yeah
really good so this is kind of a pretty
clear-cut thing if you look at the like
motor learning uh kind of side of things
so in the beginning when you are having
somebody who's trying to learn a
technique so that this has kind of been
like the learning stage that kind of
feedback is really really helpful at
improving kind of short making short
term performance improvements in
technique and ability so really really
good in that regard as mike already said
in the long term this can actually
become a crutch because what you need to
actually ingrain motor learning uh in
the long term is more randomized uh
feedback and more randomized conditions
so weightlifting is a fucking great
example of this if you guys have ever
trained in a weightlifting gym they have
very very few mirrors but in the
beginning it's not uncommon for
beginners to train in front of a mirror
and or get um video feedback right away
from their coaches so that they can
actually see what's going on in real
time because it's a complicated motor
skill but at some point you kind of
start weaning them off of the mirror now
it's not necessarily like a binary like
okay mirror only and then no mirror
forever again it might be something as
they become more intermediate uh as or
as they're transitioning into becoming
more skilled
you might start taking the mirror away
and having them not train with the
mirror at times and then kind of
building that up and eventually you
would be kind of weaning them off of the
mirror as they become more and more
advanced and then even as an advanced
person so like let's say
dr mike um somebody sho like there's a
new machine let's just let's just
pretend like the belt squat is a new
machine and dr mike comes across the
belt squat for the first time and
someone's like dr mike you got to check
this out
mike squatted his whole life at this
point he knows how to squat would it
still be beneficial for him kind of
learning a new motor skill in the form
of this particular new machine to see
that feedback yeah for the first couple
sessions it might be but then after that
since it's so similar to things that
he's already done he can take it away
and
oh and overnight when he sleeps his body
will consolidate some of those motor
patterns and he'll be good to go so it's
actually a really interesting topic in
terms of feedback i mean if you guys
have ever looked into motor learning
there's entire books on how feedback
should be distributed it's a fucking
mind fuck of a topic but kind of tldr
version is like lots of feedback for the
learning phases is good and then into
the mastery phases less and less
feedback and um kind of more difficult
and randomized conditions seems to be
very important
yeah 100
excellent answer james now we scroll
down to josh
benware
got it it's like
vaporware
would you guys recommend regular visits
to uh chiropractor for spine and general
health or is just useless in a waste of
money any effect on actual fatigue so my
take on the chiropractor profession is
as follows
something like as many as half or more
of chiropractors or pure snake oil
salesmen to make all sorts of claims
that to medical professionals are just
absurd on their face zero attempt to
make the murderers for scientific and
it's just giant fucking waste of time uh
especially for something like general
health which your spine cannot possibly
influence because it's just your fucking
spine your femur doesn't influence
general health either i know crazy
uh however
some some chiropractors some pretty
large fractions population
can be consulted in times of chronic
pain and in times of uh specifically
diagnosed bold spinal and or other sort
of paraspinal issues and can offer uh
hypotheses can offer diagnoses and can
offer treatments or directions for
treatment so i would say
uh you know if a chiropractor
just seems to stick to sports and seems
to say things that aren't total nonsense
and if an actual medical doctor or
sports medicine doctor or physical
therapist said hey this guy really knows
his stuff then maybe it's worth a visit
uh if a chiropractor is like on their
bio one of the things they do is like
you can treat the cold make you less
sick boost your immune system through
spinal manipulations when you're talking
about just someone who's completely out
to lunch so it's just a total waste of
money um i would say a preference to
chiropractors i would usually opt for a
sports medicine physician uh and then
that's that's really kind of you know
especially someone who's like uh uh well
like my wife a d.o uh doctor of
osteopathic medicine they actually learn
some of the same manipulations and stuff
like that that chiropractic folks do and
these things generally make you feel
good and they don't do a whole lot else
uh they can maybe improve some outcomes
uh and maybe get rid of some chronic
pain
but that's kind of the intersection of
what chiropractors are good at anyway so
i would seek out a sports medicine
doctor or do and and then they can
probably take care of you
i don't want to insult anyone
better than the average chiropractor
there sure are some chiropractors that
really are great really another stuff
but there's just so many awful awful
people in the industry um and
almost every single one of the good
chiropractors will roll their eyes and
tell you like dude most these people
suck it's kind of like personal training
like you guys in the in the audience
right now listening to this like would
you say the average personal trainer
really knows their stuff
sorry what is the average personal
trainer like got some combination of
high school diploma slash present
diploma and barely knows how to read
like that's their education
uh so but are there really good good
personal trainers hell yeah you've got
to be really careful so i would say that
similar thing with chiropractic
yeah i agree with dr mike here and so
kind of one of the ways you can kind of
see
if you're on if you go see a
chiropractor and you see if they're on
track with what you want is are they
getting you to come in to just manage
the symptoms on an ongoing basis or do
they have a distinct treatment plan in
which you come in and then eventually
you don't come in anymore outside of
just maybe a checkup or two every now
and again to make sure you're good to go
that's kind of the big difference
because i think like mike said about
half of them just want you to keep
coming in for
managing whatever problems that you
imagine that you have or that they
pretend that you have or whatever and
it's really just to get you in the door
and keep collecting that business i
think the ones that you want to find you
get you to the root of the problem get
you on the treatment path that fixes the
problem or refers you to somebody else
like a pt or a doctor who has more
resources to get the problem fixed at
some point so i'm i i'm sorry to any of
you who are chiropractors out there but
you know i've had bad experiences and
i'm very skeptical of that particular
field
um all right ben campbell is our last
question asked her for the day man i
don't know where he is where the fuck
has been
all right doing control f
damn
come on
gotcha
boom james is right up your alley
how do you minimize the negative effects
of drinking alcohol i'm really getting
drunk obviously has negative effects on
muscle protein synthesis and recovery
process but as many ways possible to
reduce these consequences while also
enjoying my social life well learn how
to interact with people without being a
drunkard asshole
i'm a college student and go out
drinking usually two times per week what
fraction of the time is you get laid
though you feel me because if it's not
at least once then your drinking is
important you're doing it wrong i try to
drink on my rest days rather than
training days
slightly raise my protein intake and
attempt to account for cows or alcohol
ps cheers for all the information you
both give i've only been lifting for a
year but i can honestly say that you've
cut a lot of the noise for me and made
my patch flipping a stronger one keep up
the great work it's appreciated we'll
bet it's our sincere pleasure and you
know it's all jokes when we talk that
shit about you great question i have
some tips but i want to hear what dr
james often says because if your boy has
a first grade education in drinking dr
james hoffman is a veritable fucking
einstein
so
yeah i've read all sorts of like really
really precise
recommendations around drinking and i
those are fine i think they're titled i
get it you're an alcoholic
yeah i mean like there's pl like there's
there's more than a few really good and
they're good i'm not trying to say that
they're they're bad or anything um but i
often find that they're kind of overkill
in the sense of like if you are taking
these steps then you really just have to
reevaluate the trade-offs in terms of
your physique and lifestyle that you're
trying to make because i kind of feel
like at some point if you'd like to
drink and go out and do that you know of
course no judgment here i'm not going to
hate on you for my takate high horse um
but at some point like when you're when
you're a horse
yeah exactly when you're really being
nitpicky about like timing and calories
and all this stuff it's kind of like
what are you doing just
do your thing um so that being said a
couple things that you can do is you
know don't drink right after you train
like that's probably one of the worst
things you can do uh for a variety of
reasons um try not to drink so that it
disrupts your sleep cycle that's
probably one of the next big ones of
importance uh one thing that i have
noticed too
um
is to just kind of
this comes at a cost there's a little
trade-off here but i find that the
trade-off for me is useful one of the
problems i have if i drink too too much
even if i'm not like wasted or drunk but
if i've just had a lot to drink and then
i go to bed um you kind of get into that
like purgatory
sleep where you're not really just kind
of
purgatory is the best way i could
describe it you're not really asleep
you're not really a wig um one of the
things that i have done is made like a
big effort to hyper hydrate
um before bed now the problem with that
method is that you can go too far and
then you're waking up to go pee all
night so you kind of have to find the
right balance of like if you have been
drinking
to hydrate throughout the night and yes
you'll still suffer the effects of
consuming alcohol but some of the
effects of the dehydration get kind of
buffered a little bit which so kind of
lessen some of the damage helps you
sleep and at least kind of get the
recovery effect of good sleep um i hate
when you wake up my buddy steve and i
call it scotch mouth where you wake up
and your mouth is just so dry and you're
like
because you've been drinking oh
god so nasty
um let's see what else memories
i have a few more james if you uh run
out when you run out yeah sure couple
other quick ones um
try to avoid like if you're if you're
a person like me who is weighs a lot and
maybe has a high drinking tolerance um
it's good to get away from like the
carby drinks like beer
sugary kind of mixed drinks and at some
point it's it's a better bang for your
buck and for just like your time and
health to switch to like hard liquor and
like a diet mixer of your choice
preferably one that's not neces maybe
not caffeinated so again not
interrupting with your sleep cycle stuff
like that that way you can kind of get a
harder hit and gets you to where you
want to be without all the extra
calories or caffeine stuff like that um
yeah that's kind of all there's there's
you can definitely find more precise
recommendations but i think those are
kind of the big the big heavy hitters at
the end of the day
my question i have some on the left
field ones i think is still worthwhile
especially for a college student i wish
somebody told me this when i was in
college
first
this takes a lot of you got to be
careful here because you get yourself in
a lot of trouble
prepare to drink less and drink on a not
so full stomach because then you get the
effects of the alcohol like whoa but
with fewer calories you have to drink as
much
look you're not a kid
you know already from other shit you've
been reading on your dorm that if you
drink on an empty stomach your tolerance
is way lower and you could really really
really get this bullshit so don't do
anything stupid
but i would say don't drink on a full
stomach drink on a more empty stomach
and you don't have to have as much first
one can i tell you a funny side story
about that real quick please
one of my worst vomiting experiences was
i ate a hungry man xl and then had a
bunch of cuddy sarc scotch which is oh
my god i really can't think of a worse
combination of events um i still got
laid
my man did you throw up on the girl
i excused myself and came back i had bro
brushed my teeth and then you know
presented myself properly like a general
yeah that's good that's all fair play
um
so don't drink on a full stomach however
after you're done drinking get some good
food in you
same amount of calories except you back
load it and it helps you recover also
with the food lots of fluids as james
said it makes a big difference here's
another one
this is a lot of stuff that the college
doesn't tend to drag you in this
direction so it's low back
start drinking a little earlier and stop
drinking a little earlier let me tell
you guys something really interesting
james and i found this out the hard way
just by growing up
not much fun happens after 2 a.m
out on the scene it's just fuckery
everyone's too fucked up you can't even
hook up with anymore because they can't
even consent or the vomiting blood it's
like a zombie apocalypse
2 am you want to be back home with the
you feel me the girl or guy you picked
up already so what you want to do is
start pre-drinking a little earlier ease
into it don't have a lot of food you'll
be nice and buzzed you won't have to
drink that much free drinking's super
fun that's where you lay the foundation
for the shit you feel me like most of us
are going out and drinking to get laid
let's be completely honest and
pre-drinking is a great time to be a
little social butterfly get the good set
get good mood for the night talk to some
people you may be banging with later
they'll talk to you and then when you
get to the whatever party the big event
or the bar hopping thing you're going to
learn how to nurse
another another thing not only does dick
happen after 2 a.m nothing happens north
of like 80 percent of your tolerance
level like you're gonna have the most
fun drinking when you're like in a
fucking gnarly buzz you got a farther
than a gnarly blus you can't even hit on
people anymore like she's like hey
you're like
marissa she's like my name's kelsey or
whatever bitch then you're not gonna
rain and your dick doesn't work
dick does i mean literally the list
continues there's this illusion with
drinking especially while you're doing
it it's the over the rainbow illusion
like if i just keep i'm having x i was
having y amount of fun now i'm having x
by increasing my drinking from zero to
six shots if i go to 12 oh my god i'll
be fucking elon musk it'll be amazing
i'll be the greatest person of all time
nonsense there's a there's a curve there
folks mind the curve get close to the
top that's right and then milk it you
you want to be you don't want to be the
sober look real talk you don't want to
be the sober guy at the bar club it's
fucking weird you're going to be the
drunk guy but nice and buzz drunk you're
still funny you're still witty you got
your dancing legs and you've always got
a drink in your hand but you're not one
of these idiots it's like hey drink
arrived
right because then you don't have a
drink you look like a creep keep your
drink nurse that motherfucker if you
feel like you're coming down
take the rest of the drink buy another
one and then nurse that one it'll bump
you right back up you'll be golden um
and then look like 1am you know what i'm
saying you're not over the the girl or
you're like hey you want to get out of
here and she's like i do and then you're
out and you go get a bite to eat then
you go get a bite to eat you're feeling
and then that's it like you're good
check plus the idea that and this is to
juxtapose with the other method
you
trained like crazy then you ate dinner
until 9pm
then at 9 30 you begin drinking you take
12 shots you throw up at 1 30 you still
drink and at 4 am there's like you're
getting stabbed with a piece of broken
glass on the streets of dublin
that's where that goes
cool it be easy be mr night butterfly
and that is by starting early not eating
a whole ton with your drinking milking
it out and knowing when to cut the
fucking night off going to have a good
meal and a good meal
did i miss anything james no that was
great um i i know i've brought this up
in the past but
my favorite uh using dr mike's
recommendation of starting early what i
what i used to love we used to do the
four loko the original four lokos
because you get like an energy
effect rp is not responsible for
anything in the fight man four loko was
like the ultimate pre-game it was the
ultimate pre-game if you had one you
that was like we're going to have a
great night if you had two you were
gonna black out you appeared that's it
so why would people have two and it's
all about that fallacy of the over the
rainbow shit man he's like if i just
keep going look everything that's ever
had been bad with drugs happened
thinking like that so don't do it uh and
listen anyone who's in college who's
listening to this or who still has a
nightlife after college uh honestly we
mean the shit like it and it's not like
we're like all like old and shit maybe
we are we're not like being responsible
and don't do anything crazy i want you
to do crazy shit i want you to
have all the sex and get all the blow
jobs and eat all the whatever and do all
the things but that shit just doesn't
happen if you just manage your shit
folks it's an optimization problem
you're going out there not to just drink
you can do that shit at home you're
going out there to socialize to have fun
and to get laid and those things are
really optimized in the mid-range over
the long term and starting early it's
not it's not something where you like
pound 18 shots you get to the club
within half an hour you're getting a
blowjob of them uh 45 minutes you're
vomiting blood into the
you know into the freaking bathroom and
then an hour later you're in the icu
that actually can happen usually minus
the blowjob because nobody's giving blow
skis to the guy that can't walk that's a
public service announcement
yeah that's totally spot on and just
just remember to like this is one of
those kind of like the nsaid effect
where uh often the effects of alcohol
are kind of overblown in terms of how
negative they are but there is
definitely like a pretty linear curve
and then it actually does like a very
curvilinear curve very suddenly yes it's
kind of like um
you know though the more alcohol you
drink let's just say per week kind of
the worst the effect and then there is a
inflection point where now and that's
usually getting super hammered you're
getting hammered multiple times per week
and it's that at that point you probably
have bigger issues than than worrying
about your mps
100 and just it's so so funny last thing
i'll say that's actually our last
question we're done for today it's man i
know public policy person
and i probably have this all wrong and
it would cause really bad um actual
effects
but
james we went to school at almost more
or less the same time in midwestern
suburbia
all we were told through all of school
and i believed all this shit because i
was a goody two shoes until i got to
college and i was still mostly getting
two shoes all we were told was like only
derelicts drink don't drink zero drinks
is great abstinence blah blah blah and
like and then you find out that if you
drink like all of a sudden you're mr
popular and you're getting laid and
they're like they lied to me
what i think would be better i don't
seriously mean this to have no idea what
i'm talking about like
if they were just like legit if they
were honest like i want to come in and
talk to high school kids and be like hey
you guys know that kid billy in the
fucking 11th grade that always drinks
too much like ah like is he getting laid
they're like no he's passed out like
exactly you stupid assholes don't drink
that much because it's exactly what you
don't want to do is yeah alcohol's
dangerous whatever mcgruff the crime dog
told you that shit 50 times already i'm
not here to tell you that i'm here be
smart so you can get the things you want
social interaction getting laid etc and
not feeling like shit like that's why
moderate drinking wins because it's
actually better for all the things you
want it's not like oh you really have
fun if you drink a lot but you could die
you don't even really have fun
ah
yeah and just making it less taboo like
that i think also helps a lot where
people just understand what it is and
it's not just like oh here's this thing
that we're not supposed to do but we're
gonna go do it
the quote tube stakes boys on uh youtube
i should be a motherfucking guidance
counselor don't know about that neither
of us should be guidance counselors no
all right so great questions this week
um dr mike tell people again where they
can find your new instagram
right
so
there's still a small chance i'm getting
my old ship back i wouldn't bank on that
but uh just go on instagram and type in
doctor mike is or tell all one word and
that's that's my new jam
all right sometimes
this it is a sad thing um but we won't
get into that uh dr mike any other
housekeeping about rp or anything that's
going on big announcements coming soon
i feel like that i feel like we're we're
kind of a cocktease in that way where we
always have big announcements coming
soon
but we it's actually true always true
announcements coming soon uh for myself
i don't think so oh uh mel's uh
a little excuse me evidence-based habit
building book is available on ebook
paperback and audiobook so you can get
that in all three format all three major
formats now so if you guys are
interested in
changing your life for the better and by
developing healthy habits that's a good
one and it's of course narrated by yours
truly um but that's dr mel sounds weird
exactly uh that's all i got um so yeah
mike do you like my my weeb wall i've
changed things up a little bit i guess i
do i love it you just gotta lean into
the weedness and the neon genesis
evangelion is exactly what i respect
that a person who only gets laid in
theory but you being late in real life
is just oh that's honestly impressive
you're like you're like the
the illusion per like the illusion
promoter for nerds that still want to
get laid like where joshua james is out
there
yeah but he's not everyone's dr james i
don't know what to tell you don't bank
on this shit yeah i'm an
anomaly all right folks uh great
questions thanks again for engaging with
us as always make sure you check out
there's like fucking endless videos
coming out so always stay tuned i think
um
one of them i just saw got like 40 000
likes already it was like training for
something like getting huge or something
i don't remember there was one
exotically huge exotically huge there
you go training for exotically used
already has a whole bunch of life so
check that and all the other ones out
and we will see you next time