hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization continuing with our
hypertrophy training modalities series
number two
down sets
sounds intimidating are you down with
down sets what are down sets well
down sets are straight sets to put very
simply
where you remember straight sets from
last time we did this
are sometimes higher load as you go
usually not it's just the same weight
like 3 15 3 15 315 then you go do
another exercise or something
down sets are straight sets in which you
reduce the load after doing some
straight sets at a given load so for
example you squat you do 315 for a set
of 10 315 for a set of 9 315 for a set
of six get real tired and then you go to
275 and you do another set of 10 another
set of eight that 275 for two sets r2
down sets at 275 down from the higher
load that you were doing so
why are we doing them what's the reason
to drop the load there are fundamentally
two very good
uh core reasons that we're doing
certainly some others that are
peripheral
first
if you were doing fewer than five reps
per set
probably it's so little volume per set
that you don't get a lot of hypertrophy
so we recommend for muscle growth to do
sets that are at least five reps in uh
duration and probably you know anywhere
from five to thirty is fine
so if you're lifting really heavy in the
five to ten rep range and you get tired
as tends to happen if your next straight
set is gonna be like four reps or less
you might wanna say you know man i gotta
reduce the load so i can continue to do
high quality sets if i reduce the load i
still get a great stimulus but it's
going to be at oh you know sets of eight
again or sets of ten still in that same
rep range potentially and then you get
all the benefits and essentially none of
the downsides so that's the absolute
reason to do downsets is because you
physically have gotten so tired that you
can't get into your rep range that you
wanted anymore
there is a relative reason as well
stimulus to fatigue ratio at some point
whether
it is fewer than five reps that you're
starting to look at for your next sets
or fewer than whatever rep range reps
that you had in mind
if you drop out of that rep range you
know from personal experience in many
cases that your stimulus to fatigue
ratio tends to not be as great for
example
pull downs and this is not dogmatic this
doesn't work like this for everyone but
for myself personally as an example
if i do pull downs anything between
10 to 20 reps gives me a good stimulus
but if i get
fewer than 10 reps on average any set of
pull downs fewer than 10 reps i just i
think i don't think it's because
pulldowns tend to happen pretty quickly
the duration of exposure the time under
tension is just so low i don't get a big
stimulus so if i get tired enough with i
say 150 pounds to where my next set is
going to be like 9 or 10 reps for pull
downs if i go down in weight say 120
pounds and i go back up in reps say 15
the stimulus of that set is way better
and the fatigue like elbow pain and
shoulder stuff because the weight is
lower sometimes is lower so the stimulus
to fatigue ratio for some exercises i'll
actually put this in more generally
every exercise for every individual at
any given time has an optimum rep range
in which it gets its best stimulus to
fatigue ratios
and that might not be the entire five to
thirty range it might be five to ten it
might be 10 to 15 and so on so if you
are so tired with your straight sets
that your stimulus to fatigue ratios are
going to start to scoot down because the
reps are getting too low and your best
sfrs are actually at higher reps doing
down sets can actually make the future
sets that you do a little bit better in
stimulus to fatigue ratio and thus
give you all the results that you're
looking for
what qualifies as a load drop for
downsets i mean the basic answer is
anything
but usually it's five to thirty percent
thirty percent what that's a lot how the
hell does that work well sometimes some
exercises are so fatiguing that in order
to get back to the top of a rep range a
30 drop might be needed what's an
example
deadlifts all right you do like four
sets of deadlifts with 405 and the last
set is like you wanted five you got four
reps
how do you make your next set of
deadlifts more like ten reps you know
like if you drop the weight by five
percent you get like two reps and then
you'll be like what the hell am i doing
is that looks so fatigue and their
fatigue drop is so crazy exponential
that you hang in there for a bit and you
just drop off if you want to get back
into a productive rep range you may have
to do as little as you know what 70
percent of the prior load
it's unusual much of the time the best
sfrs are generated with a oh roughly 10
10 to 15 percent low drop so for those
of you watching this to try to go you
know the gym the next time and how much
should i drop 10 to 15 percent is a
really good drop for most people in most
cases
what you do is you drop the load you do
several more normal rest sets several
more we're basically straight sets it'll
load and higher reps are the results and
that can lead to some good things
what are the situations in which these
sets are a good idea well that basically
is the same thing as asking what the
upsides are
if you need to prevent your sets from
dropping below five reps down sets are a
classic way to go very good solution to
that problem
if you're noticing that the reps aren't
high enough to give you your best
stimulus to fatigue ratios then it's
time to do downsides great solution to
that problem
in addition there is one more special
benefit here
in many cases
your technique
can start to degrade with fatigue
you know you start at 3 15 in the squat
for a set of 10 by the time it's a set
of six four sets later you're like
someone's like hey how's your technique
feeling like i don't feel anything
anymore i'm just trying to survive but
if you go from 315 and we put 275 on the
bar for your next set a lot of times 275
feels so much lighter and because you've
been training at a heavy load of 315
you're so potentiated your nervous
system is so primed for heavy loads
that the load feels ultra light and
you've had tons of practice in the squat
and your quads already pre-pumped
a lot of times the mind-muscle
connection you experience
in the first few sets of down sets is
out of this world
and there's a huge benefit and because
the mind-muscle connection is so awesome
and because the load is much lighter and
because you're primed and very well
practiced in the technique downsets
offer excellent excellent great
technical practice while also being
hypertrophic so another reason
to do a downset is sometimes even if
you're still doing sets of six or seven
more than five you start to notice your
technique is getting a little funky and
it's just you're just too fucking tired
and weights too goddamn heavy if you
reduce the weight by 10 to 15 percent
then the next few sets feel amazing
again even better than the first few
sets and your technique is just right on
the money so something to try if you're
in that situation
what are the downsides in other words
when do we not want to use downsides
potentially well first they can take a
long time to do because they're really
just straight sets at a lower weight you
got to rest like you know whatever you
know whatever the rest factor is from
the last video like the four factor rest
model and cardio has to be good you have
to feel strong again your centers should
be good your muscles have to be at least
capable of five reps and it could take a
few minutes and sometimes you're in a
rush or you have a constrained time and
you just don't want to sit around for
that long so you know downsets are not
the ideal in that situation like who
does downsides power lifters they'll
occupy the rack for 45 fucking minutes
straight they do three sets and they're
like hey man you uh you're almost done
with that like nope the downsides are
like okay and they're like all right
sweet and they like take 315 off put 275
on and sit back down
god damn it i got you have more sets
right like huh what the fuck are you
doing now like i'm resting for the next
night like i'm just leaving the gym i'm
gonna go lift cars in the parking lot
fuck this right so a lot of times it
takes a long time
and there's another problem with
downstats it's not really a problem with
downsets it's a problem with applying
them sort of uh getting too carried away
and and here's the problem
if
you get really tired
and your mind muscle connection starts
to really go
you sort of have two options for that
muscle group
one is you just leave the gym
and two is you continue to train
if you only ever do straight sets at
some point you will drop below five reps
and you just have to leave the gym
because there's nothing else to be done
in a hypertrophic range
however if you abuse down sets
like i just got an idea about like a
1980s anti-drug commercial
are you kids doing down sets after
school mom's like ooh geez
so if you're doing too many down sets
what ends up happening is
you can just keep lowering the weight
and just keep cranking out reps and
you're like ah i feel right
lower reps or start to hit you again and
you just reduce the weight and just keep
going this can result in insane amounts
of junk volume which is to say volume
that you know as we do more sets we
stimulate more growth junk volume starts
to appear when any further sets cause
almost no gains
and then junk volume really hits when
further sets cause no more gains and
junk volume is the worst when further
sets actually cause less gains uh
terrible there is a situation point
number four uh hypothetically in which
further stats actually cause muscle loss
that's highly unlikely to happen in the
gym
and so you have to be aware of the
situation of you know tracking your pump
and your previous week's soreness to
have a distinct cutoff point you don't
want to get it carried away with
downsets because if you don't have those
cutoff points from other information
about your training you can just keep
going and be like oh yeah i did 20 sets
of squats today and someone's like
you're squatting 50 pounds like well
it's challenging for me now because i'm
so tired like i'm really sure you're
working anything at this point your
faster fibers are they have a beret and
a
french sailor shirt like ah we've been
done for 15 sets right there's nothing's
going on anymore that's super productive
so if you're aware of that down sets can
be excellent because they can if you
know how many sets you have to do to get
roughly the volume you need and you've
done let's say let's say seven sets
you've done five of them straight get
shit's getting too heavy my muscle
connection sucks two of them you do us
down sets perfect everything's awesome
and you're good to go so if you don't
abuse the practice these are awesome
tools
next time we'll talk about another
training modality and we'll go through
all the ones that we know about folks if
you have any questions shoot them in
below like subscribe remember that girl
that used to have a huge crush on back
in sixth grade find her on facebook
instagram
snapchat where the fuck kids are doing
nowadays i missed something tick tock
and dm her to tell her about these
videos that we're doing here at our
people like i know you might not
remember me i'm kyle i sat behind you in
third grade he used to smell your hair
and they sent me to the principal's
office for that i've changed i promise
dr mike he's on rp he's got tons of
information i just wanted to tell you
that p.s i hope you're doing well and um
really sorry about what i did to your
cat that one time
see you next time