hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
purisation today's topic continued from
last week is how much muscle can you
expect to grow at any given unit time
and all the way through like 10 years of
training well here is a detailed
discussion now
here is a huge huge caveat before we
start these are my synthesized estimates
they are very estimates they're very
general the variance is huge and i could
be way far off so if you'd like to
debate me on my estimates in the
comments please do it boost the
algorithm but to be honest i could be
totally wrong however maybe i'm not
totally wrong maybe just a little wrong
and there could be some value here
point zero what we'll start out with is
the factor list of things that determine
how much muscle you gain or largely
determine anyway
then we're going to talk about how much
muscle you can gain per week per month
in year one of your training in years
two and three combined in years four
five and six and in year seven plus
which is to say really kind of seven to
ten
and then an interesting little hook
what if you're no longer natty and if
you don't know what that means tell your
mom to put your coloring books away and
turn off the video if you do know what
that means you're a psycho overlord
criminal rebel and we'll get to that in
a sec all right factor list
how
do various factors
actually
imply how much muscle you're going to
gain during any one time and your career
well here's the thing genetics huge
actually
dependently and independently
sort of determine how much muscle you're
going to gain with the following
characteristics the following
characteristics are both somewhat
independent and dependent on one another
and they determine how much muscle
you're gonna gain so first is how much
you start with okay if you start pretty
jacked you're gonna be really jacked at
the end of the whole thing and that's
pretty sweet also people who start
jacked usually gain more muscle
like you know one of the reasons you
start jacked is you just have higher
test so just naturally and when you
train with higher test naturally you
usually gain more muscle
another one is how fast you initially
gain
another one is how quickly your gains
curve flattens out for some people it
flattens out pretty fast for some people
it goes and goes and goes and goes and
of course flattens out but less so they
get uh
some total long-term gains that are
higher
and
also how long you gain four total
because some people will every year
seven or so have negligible gains after
that and then some people are natural
and gaining
muscle still 15 years into their career
there's always jeff alberts feel free to
come up um uh 3d muscle journey he's
like fucking 100 and still getting more
and more jacked doesn't make any sense i
think he's legit like 50 years old uh
it's pretty crazy lifetime natty uh
really super inspirational some people
just keep gaining slow but steady and
some people peter out you don't really
have a choice in the matter so genetics
are a big deal now
sex
people do have it i've heard it feels
nice i've seen it on the videos even
occasionally when i'm when i'm not doing
this
uh jk so sex here means sort of a
similar thing to gender females for all
the numbers i'll list
multiply them by 0.5 or by 0.66
somewhere between the two
0.666 as a devil's multiplication we
don't do that here but anyway roughly
half to a two-thirds
is what you can expect of male gains um
as a female and
point number three is the difficulty and
consistency of your training which is to
say look if you're doing four to six
weekly sessions that are solid your
technique is good it doesn't mean
perfect but d syntax you do a squat and
someone's like that is a squat exercise
it's not like you do a squat and
someone's like that person walked out a
barbell and then stood there for a while
and did things with their knees and then
went back in
uh hard training you're pushing it and
no periods of like many months off like
people say that yeah i've been training
for five years and like oh cool the
entire time like well took three years
off in the middle of that motherfucker
that's not five years so if you're doing
that stuff you're checking the boxes and
to the extent that you're not doing that
stuff for doing less of it then you're
not getting all the gains that we're
going to be able to talk about here
another one and these all sort of assume
these gains here
um
sorry these gains i'm going to talk
about in a bit the actual numbers assume
that you're doing most of this kind of
good stuff uh intelligent programming
okay do you do you manage fatigue if you
don't know what a deal it is you're
trained for two years oh boy right uh do
you know how to detect poor stimulus to
fatigue ratios exercises that aren't
really hitting your muscles that well
and just hitting your joints and do you
know how to replace them with exercises
that better suit your needs because a
lot of people get a lot of growth just
finding exercise that work for them and
if you don't know how to do that you
could be missing out on a lot of growth
obvious one here another one is diet
point number five uh if you don't gain
any weight it's difficult for you to
gain all the muscle tissue you could
have
anyone who starts out at 150 pounds or
130 pounds when they're lifting they're
not getting 180 inject by main gaining
or maintaining it's physically fucking
impossible you have to add calories
somehow because your body's not made of
some you know substance that doesn't
have any matter you have to add matter
so if you're not gaining weight the
entire time you start at 130 you're
going to stay at 130 you're going to be
like a bruce lee type motherfucker
around 30 but you're not going to be 180
and there's a big difference between
that
and you know if you under eat protein or
just poor nutrient intake you're like
deficient in a bunch of vitamins and
minerals you're not going to get as much
gain as you could have so that impacts
the curves
sleep stress recovery uh we don't mean
professional bodybuilder all you do is
you don't answer the phone the entire
day all you do is train and sleep and
rest uh just enough sleep per night to
be rather rested you're not like
chronically underslept
average stress ideally below you know
you're not like ceos calling you and
firing you every hour whatever and uh no
other sports so a lot of times people
will train during wrestling like i did
when i was in high school
they get like good games but not ideal
games because wrestling is not great for
your gains it tires you out it gets you
hurt and that last point is if you have
tons of injuries or more than a few then
of course your gains aren't going to be
what they would have been had you not
been hurt and lastly is age
after 40 things get a little tougher and
if you're curious how tough and why and
the specific dynamics of that we have a
whole video on aging hopefully uh scott
the video guy will throw it in one of
those magic youtube clickers click on
the aging video we'll see if he does and
if he doesn't i'm sure you can youtube
it i was gonna say google but google
owns youtube
google owns all you guys remember what
happened to me in my bill gates video i
got that muscle crap when i was talking
shit so now now that bill gates is
single who knows what he's capable of
and oh my god
fuck scotty
hamstring cramp
so whoever's in charge of google and
youtube
sergey brin is that one of the people i
love you you're great please don't hurt
me all right
per week how much muscle can you gain
fascinating and almost entirely
irrelevant
imaging isn't that good we can barely
tell we have to do tracer studies and
then they're super complex difficult to
infer
maybe between a tenth of a pound and
half a pound
per week
and average for noobs is like a fifth of
a pound of actual muscle uh per week in
year one
but you can gain half a pound to a pound
per week in the first eight weeks in
some cases so
sometimes it's barely detectable and
sometimes it's like you watch someone
physically change and get stretch marks
over the course of eight weeks you're
like holy shit the hell's going on with
you hulk right so you get everything
between um
for anyone not just starting out it's a
an amount you can barely tell okay and
it hardly matters so it's better seen
from a month perspective or a year or
longer than that so let's go to month
still hard to tell
imaging isn't that good tracer studies
are limited in utility
and you know maybe we're looking at
between a sixth of a pound and two
pounds of muscle gain per month
and that's uh you know for noobs
mostly um is like you know one pound per
month in year one which is to say like
roughly 10 to 12 pounds maybe 10 pounds
in the first year total right it's a
pound of muscle per month that makes
sense but it's probably like one to
three pounds per month in the first six
months and then it levels off a little
bit because it does one of these um and
the last note about per month is also
kind of useless to speculate but
outliers are a big deal here that some
people actually put on 10 pounds plus of
muscle in their first six months legit
they do no steroids or anything like
that and some people just put on a few
pounds and they're kind of woefully
disappointed but that's the way the
cookie crumbles all right much more
realistic and branching off of our video
last week
in year one
the average gain i would estimate is
between 5 and 15 pounds of muscle for
young healthy males
and the outliers here
include people who don't gain at all
okay there have been long research
studies where some subjects actually
gain zero muscle as detected by the best
instruments we have boy oh boy you want
to be the researcher a grad student
working in that study and they come in a
year later like what did i gain coach
and you're like
you're great did we tell you that
they're like yeah you told me a bunch
and that's what matters they're like i
didn't get any muscle they're like you
lost two pounds of muscle legit happens
sometimes it's like captain america
before he had the uh
steroids uh and uh you know he was like
probably the guy that was gonna lose
muscle if he tried training uh some
people gain 20 pounds or more per muscle
in the first year on rare occasions it
happens it absolutely happens now
10 pounds of muscle in the first year
for decently dedicated and relatively
well-fed training
is realistic for perhaps like half of
all uh young healthy males which is
pretty sweet and that's maybe five to
seven pounds for half of all young
healthy females so something to write
home about for sure but lots of
variation there so be mindful that you
don't take these as what you should
expect to gain yourself or expect your
clients to gain big normal curve right
years two and three so we got year one
that's like roughly 10 pounds for a
young healthy male years two and three
probably about five pounds per year in
both of those years some people are on
the zero to two and a half pounds per
year of that some people are still doing
10 pounds of muscle every single fucking
year so you'll have people legit who
gain like 10-ish pounds of muscle in the
first year like 10 their second and like
10 or 30. it happens it absolutely
happens
how good someone does on the muscle gain
factor up to year three is determined
heavily by the usual suspects genetics
etc gender blah blah or sorry sex um
another one is are you trying to gain
weight like if you
want to gain 30 pounds of muscle in your
first three years of training you had
better be eating because where the fuck
do you think that physical tissue is
going to come from
nowhere you can't maintain or maintain
your way into that bullshit as a
straight up doesn't happen so unless you
start really fat like and even then
eating at maintenance or slight surplus
will just boost your gains big time
another one is did you successfully sort
of earn your rank of intermediate by
actually doing smart shit are you now
doing deloads are you doing good
technique is your training intensity
high because if you have dog shit noob
approach to training in year one and you
never get any better at training like
you're like oh my biceps i do biceps
like this and someone's like do you feel
your biceps better with the barbell or
the cable you're like what is bicep feel
oh god well i don't know if you really
know anything you're like how hard are
you training they're like i do sets of
ten like
how close to failure they're like i
don't fail i succeed like are you a
fucking alien or robot or what some
people put almost no thought into their
training they're just like automatons
and they won't make the obvious
adjustments you should be so if you are
you're probably on that higher end if
you're not making the obvious
adjustments someone could pretty quickly
watch you train at the gym for a week
and be like i can tell you why you're
not making really good gains and we can
fix a lot of these issues really really
quick
all right
years four five and six
per year during these years many people
will get roughly one to five pounds of
muscle gain per year
okay
now some people will gain somewhere
between no
muscle and a pound per year tough legit
it happens if it happened to you comment
below that's rough i don't know how many
people want to admit that sort of thing
for some folks they're gaining every
year year four year five year six five
pounds or more muscle on average that
also happens okay somebody's gotta be an
ifb pro around here right and sure
challenge
uh so there's a huge huge huge variation
here
now at this point how much muscle you
gain versus your genetic potential
starts
to really be affected by
your training quality the degree of
individualization you have made to your
training like is bent row is really your
exercise for building a big back or
machine rose just hit you 50 times
better in every respect um nutrition all
these things start to matter a lot more
and even down to individualized exercise
selection down to exercise technique
five to six days of training is now
obviously superior to three to four so
if you're like well i haven't been
getting a ton of weight and i'm in year
four and someone's like well how often
do you train per week like like two to
three times a week like well fucking
shit you gotta train four or five or six
times a week and then you'll gain much
more muscle because now you're you know
you're not gaining that much per session
that you need to add sessions to keep
the gain rate up and it's you know
you're into it culturally you're not
going to just like burn out if you had a
session if you like it after three years
you're probably going to be just fine
for year four
and now for many people specialization
becomes a clear advantage so you know
generally you just work out all your
muscles or whichever ones you want to
grow for the first like three years but
year four five and six is when it's
maybe like okay like i should do
three or four months of really really
hammering my chest and triceps and then
being easy on my back and biceps and
then another three months the other way
another you know three months for the
legs and sort of rotate that starts to
have really clear benefits or is sort of
leaving the other training
approaches a little bit behind just just
exiting that envelope because it really
does matter you can make more of an
impact with specialization where before
your whole total body systemic fatigue
was uh your cap was so high that it
didn't matter you could train everything
and be just fine so just to tally up so
far
after year six of training some total of
six years of training from year year
zero to year six
on the outside of that not so great
things happened maybe because of
genetics maybe some other factors you
might be looking at 10 to 15 pounds
total muscle so far on average for the
outside those people on the outside
they're getting nothing and there's
people on the outside that are getting
much better than that on the average
side of gains you may be looking at 20
to 30 total pounds of muscle for the
average young healthy male that's pretty
sweet
on the yahoo side of like holy shit i'm
god's gift to lifting weights you may be
looking at 30 to 40 pounds total muscle
up through year six big deal and you
might be headed somewhere if that's the
case particularly like to gainesville
what's up florida been to gainesville a
few times
it's fine town
now what about year seven plus
for many people year seven eight nine
ten etc you're looking at one to two
pounds of muscle per year for most
people and if you ever dive into the
natty forums
and get right real depressed this will
really feed the fires of depression
because it's probably true
right
some folks it'll be worse they'll
essentially be all but plateaued and
that happens for some people they'll put
on or many people maybe even most will
put on like a pound and a half of muscle
per year through year 10 or year 7 to 10
a pound and a half and then some people
will still be able to crank out three to
five pounds of muscle per year here for
like three to five years so although
seven eight nine ten
mike trying to kill me
seriously i really need to stop talking
that shit
so some folks
can actually put on three to five pounds
of muscle on average every year for like
year seven eight nine ten maybe 11. that
really does happen
now
at 10 years
after beginning diligent diet and good
uh sorry diligent training and good
eating ten years total of that
on the outside of like you know some
combination of genetics lifestyle etc
blah blah blah you didn't do it like
great
you may be looking at something like 12
to 17 pounds of total muscle so far
something like 15 pounds of muscle which
is awesome
15 pounds of muscle
is a lot of muscle but after 10 years it
could seem underwhelming especially if
you do the reverse math and go like fuck
that's a pound and a half a year
that kind of blows and you know yeah it
kind of does right now on average young
healthy males will be able to gain
something like i think
25 to 30 5 pounds of total muscle per
year so like 30 sorry per year good god
over the course of 10 years
so hey that's pretty sweet 30 pounds is
a lot and on the yahoo side of like hey
you really did well genetically and
other factors you may be going for 40 to
55 pounds of muscle total over the first
10 years of your training and probably
that's close to within as far as you'll
get because after 10 years the gains are
really really slow in most cases at all
for context let's use an example we're
going to develop the perfect male he is
going to be exactly five foot nine which
is the perfect male height i'm not five
nine by the way
five six and a half
why didn't you make me taller
microphone and then god above that
on
the outside our male is 130 pounds five
foot nine starts training at 18 ish
years of age
we're looking at
pounds and because all the gains are 15
pounds there were muscle 145 pounds lean
because you probably started average you
know harry potter physique 145 lean it's
a good look it's a good look uh well
into the club fuckboy look right um so
even if you don't have like amazing
genetics you can still fucking look good
because remember like regular people if
you're 145 and lean and you take your
shirt off at the beach
pool
uh
dance club they probably kick you out at
the nas club for that sort of thing
unless you are in the countries of
europe and then it's totally cool
especially hungry just kidding europeans
stay calm that was my awful impression
of the entire continent
so 145 pounds lean pretty neat starting
at 1 30 training for 10 years
another person on the average side
out of a stereotype here may start at
one thirty five nine same idea ten years
later they're 160 and they're stage lean
or close
if they choose to push that and
obviously they could be 170 and as lean
as they started they add some muscle and
some fat same body fat percentage means
you add some fat as well so 160 stage
lean i mean yeah well that's to almost
every normal person that's jackdude okay
that's when you pull off your shirt at
the grocery store they call the police
and not because you're robbing them but
because they're like you could fight
crime we're going to call the police to
come pick you up so you can beat up bad
guys with them it's clearly you buy
stuff like that you're overqualified
on the yahoo side of things you're
really good genetics you did super well
and you really got dedicated and did all
the right stuff you start at 1 30 at 5
foot 9 at roughly 18 years old you're a
young healthy male
and you may end up at like 180 pounds
stage lean and interestingly enough this
is where a lot
of natty pros land especially top natty
professional bodybuilders five nine 180
stage lean yeah that's a really good
natty pro now some daddy pros are bigger
than that uh but not so commonly and
that's why sort of our example kind of
adds up to where elite genetics is elite
genetics right now
all this talk about natty pros you may
be asking yourself the obvious question
what if i were to hypothetically at year
10
no longer be natty and what if i choose
to go to the dark side
a decent impression of the emperor i
don't know i give myself a b plus
we'll go down that road
in the next video next week oh i got you
guys you thought i was going to talk
about that shit today but we would run
out of time and uh people just don't
watch videos past a certain length you
guys know that see you next week and
we'll talk about unnatty gaines
darth vader see you next time
you