[Music]
wasting just another broken taste in the
words that I cannot say I'm making up
for not giving you breakfast in the last
they look cool there's so many like
details on there alright so guys today
we're Sean and I were kind of thinking
about what we were gonna do for today's
vlog in the last one kind of give you a
full life update on everything that's
going on with me my training and all
that but what I was thinking I would do
for today's vlog is address one of the
two most common questions that I get
asked when my subscribers actually meet
me in person which is how do I deal with
muscle imbalances so people will always
be like I've got one bicep that's a
little bigger than the other or one lat
tends to be a little more dominant than
the other and so on and so forth so I'm
gonna answer that with my best three
tips while Sean was just getting some
shots of the house I did all my best
notes for that so we're gonna go to the
gym hit a pool workout and as I go
through the workout I'm gonna take you
guys through my best tips on correcting
muscle imbalances the other question
that I get it has probably just as much
is how I research from my videos so what
my research process looks like and I
think it's because I've actually no
covered either of those in any detail in
any video that I remember so if you guys
would like to hear about my research
process that's something I can cover in
a later blog as well I can just kind of
show you some of the behind the scenes
for that so you got a fresh new tub of
high volume over here I've been
sponsored by PG signs for like it's been
almost a couple years now and it never
gets old getting like new and new double
subs same thing with rise like every
time I get a new shipment from rise it's
like still that same feeling of like you
get a new order come in alright so what
did I do here one scoop prolific and I'm
gonna do two scoops of high volume today
try to get that crazy pump that guy's
gonna sip on this on the way to the gym
[Music]
alright guys just made it here to the
gym we were taking you guys through week
seven day six full workouts this is the
second pull workout you might push pull
legs program you guys are keeping track
right him we're gonna talk about muscle
imbalances today and before I get into
my top three tips I just want to first
say that I think most people think that
their muscle imbalances are more
noticeable or worse than they actually
are and we're our own worst critics and
sometimes people come up to me and be
like look man like my arms are so uneven
am I kidding I think I'm a coach and I
can barely even see a difference there
so put it kind of in perspective and
realize that it's totally normal to have
slightly different shaped muscles so
your right might have like a little bit
more roundness to it or your left lat
might insert a little further down
unfortunately there's absolutely nothing
you can do about that really all you can
do is maximize on or minimize the
strength differences between the two
sides and maximize on the muscular size
of the two sides as equally as you can
now if you do build size let's say in
one bicep it might slightly start to
give that a little bit more peak and
kind of change the shape of it a little
bit but still how those muscles actually
insert unfortunately you can't do
anything about that so these three tips
are really going to focus on things that
you can actually change and are actually
in your control when it comes to
reducing those asymmetries when they
jump into it with some quick lap pool
ins and we'll get started with the tips
okay so guys tip number one is gonna be
to improve your mind muscle connection
with your weaker side now I'm of the
opinion that neural inputs and outputs
actually happen to be responsible from
any of these discrepancies that you see
from left to right and if you want to
kind of prove this yourself try flexing
your dominant bicep as hard as you can
and then flex your non-dominant bicep as
hard as you can and you'll probably see
that it's easier or you can flex harder
with your dominant side or your bigger
side so actually in my case the left
side is bigger and I flex the left side
I can feel much more stronger
contraction than I can with the right
side this is harder and the same thing
goes for my quads when I'm posing on
stage it's so much easier for me to
bring out the detail on the definition
of my right quad than my left law simply
because the neural connection with my
right quad is better so those motor
units are firing more easily okay so in
terms of actually improving the mind
muscle connection there are two main
ways that you can do this the first is
to actually focus on using your
non-dominant side when performing the
exercise now if you're doing lat
pull-downs for example you'll want to
actively make sure that as you fatigue
and as you reach the end of the set
you're consciously pulling with that
weaker lat a way to ensure that you're
doing this is to actually sort of mark
the rep so as you're doing the rep you
can be still say in your head or without
if you hunt you say left side left side
left side and you say that in your head
it'll kind of reinforce you to actually
be pulling with your left side equally
here right side so that's something you
can do during the set itself another
thing that you can do before you begin
the set is a pre activation exercise
that's not a term you'll actually see in
the scientific literature but basically
what it means is you'll do an isolation
exercise before moving on to a heavy
compound exercise and that does actually
have empirical support and we see that
if you do isolation exercises for the
blue
before doing some kind of compound
exercise like a squat you tend to see
activation carry over to the compound
movement so that means fire better if
they're sort of primed for activation
beforehand and I'd say it wouldn't be a
stretch to extend that onto other
muscles so for the lats for example you
might want to do pre activation in the
form of like a lap pull in or like a lap
pull over with your weak side so you
don't want to pre activate both sides
equally because you presumably don't
have a firing problem with a stronger
side instead you want to focus on pre
activation with the weaker side so that
starts to fire more in your main work
now when it comes to the biceps you
might want to do ten-second holds of an
isometric flexed so before you go to do
a set of heavy barbell curls flex your
weaker arm for 10 seconds focus on
actually actively contracting it give it
a stretch and then go in and you'll feel
a little bit more blood in there you'll
feel a little bit more of a mind muscle
connection with that side and then go
and do your bicep curls for the pecs
could do a unilateral fly where you just
grab a cable and pull it in or you can
stand up against some solid object over
here and just press against the object
with your PEC and only do that with your
weak side hold it for 10 seconds or so
get a little stretch and then go into
your main exercise so those are two
techniques that I use one is just you
can mark the rep or just be more mindful
of using the non-dominant side during
the rep before you actually begin the
set do some kind of pre activation
exercise to make sure that both sides
are firing employee and then get into
the main work alright so that's a
elaborate tip number one I'm gonna get
my next set in over here and then we're
gonna get on with tip number two
okay tip number two is gonna be to not
only include bilateral movements in your
training program so this is one of the
main gripes that I have with that highly
minimalistic training style where you
only have like squats deadlifts presses
rows pull-ups there's nothing in there
that even gives you the potential to
isolate each side individually so if
there's any kind of left-to-right
discrepancy in terms of your overall
movement pattern then that's just gonna
get more and more ingrained the more you
do the movement so if you have a
tendency to say have this elbow cocked
in a little bit more on the bench press
then you're just gonna exacerbate that
more and more the more you fall into
that movement pattern so I think it's
important to include some unilateral
movements like say dumbbell presses or
lat
pullings or single arm rows dumbbell
rows for the biceps do some dumbbell
curls not just barbell curls because
that'll allow you to focus on each side
individual now if you really do have a
movement pattern issue with any of those
big exercises like pull-ups rows etc and
what I recommend doing before you start
using those as sort of like your main
bread-and-butter
you may want to do some kind of basic
progression I would recommend this only
for people who have pretty obvious
serious asymmetries or movement pattern
issues so what you can do is go from
unilateral ice to lateral to bilateral
so basically what that means using the
pull-up or pulldown let's use the
pulldown as an example what you would do
is you would do a unilateral movement
first
so you've grabbed the bar with only or
the handle with only one hand and you do
a pulldown one arm at a time the next
thing you can do is set up both handles
but they're still moving individually
and doing both arms at once but you
still have to activate each individually
and then you eventually move to the
buttonhole bilateral movement where you
have the bar and now if you did have a
discrepancy left to right one side would
start to take over but because you've
pre-programmed it in to have both of
them firing equally you shouldn't run
into that issue
so that's both a like prophylactic and
corrective way that you can fix for this
sort of issue and that is tip number two
[Music]
[Music]
alright tip number three is gonna be to
film your exercises or get feedback from
a training partner or coach and this is
really important because for one you
shouldn't always be looking at yourself
in the mirror when you're lifting
usually want to maintain a neutral head
position so you won't always be able to
see what you're doing just using the lat
pulldown here as an example if you were
to look over at yourself rather than the
exercise you're only gonna see yourself
from a side you may not see that one
elbow is tracking down faster than the
other side or any other kind of
asymmetry in this direction so what I'd
recommend doing looking back at that
footage and kind of analyzing your form
and even on this channel there's so many
things I've seen that I'm like oh my
goodness I didn't even realize that my
court looked like that so once you've
identified the problem whether it be one
elbow being in front of the other or one
side moving faster than the other or
what have you
now then it's a matter of figuring out
where that issue is coming from in my
experience it usually stems from one of
two issues one could be a mobility issue
so if you have a mobility issue let's
say you can't get your scapula retracted
as far on one side and you might want to
address that with specific mobility
drills or exercises or see someone
qualified about that the second thing is
that you just have ingrained app or
movement pattern over time I'm something
that might have just started as a slight
exaggerated elbow tuck over time became
more and more exaggerated not to the
point where now you've got the bar on
your bench press is totally tilted in
one direction in which case you need to
basically totally reprogram that
movement now the best way to do this in
my experience is just to check your ego
strip the way back and really try to
relearn that movement many exercises
probably the best way to do this is by
using lighter weights but slow ascend
tricks if you can really control and
master where your limbs are moving on
the eccentric you'll probably correct
most of that asymmetry and then the
other thing you could apply is what I
said in tip number two which is
basically starting with a unilateral
movement
focusing on each side one at a time then
moving into ISO lateral and then back to
bilateral and that should be totally
corrected so that's gonna be tip number
three I just thought of a bonus tip so
we're gonna have ponies tip tip number
four after I finish up with my next
exercise so this isn't an asymmetry tip
but some of you guys run in my program
might notice that I'm doing the track
bar front here they've actually switched
over to this instead of the regular
snatch grip truck because one thing that
I consistently found with the snatch
grip is you're gonna end up riding up
against your thighs and your business
down here with the bar whereas with this
you've got nothing out in front of you
so you can just shrug completely freely
and you still get that thirty degrees of
abduction or I do anyway I guess if the
tire is wider than your shoulder width
so it's so much more of a natural feel
for me so I've been fishing over this
amazing stretch here at the bottom you
have to worry about it raising up again
I've been down against you over here's
so if I had a left-to-right trap in
balance
I might say let's say my right was
weaker I'd go right side right side
right side
and really focus on squeezing that's
alright
bonus tip so bonus tip is gonna be
actually something pretty obvious but I
think it's a good idea to add more
volume to the weaker side so in my case
this actually applies so my left arm is
a little bit bigger than my right arm at
the end of my pull workout or my arm
workout or what have you I would add one
two three sets to my weaker side
I wouldn't recommend doing more than
that because for one you don't want the
imbalance to get carried over in the
other direction and then also you don't
want to excessively fatigue that body
part right you don't want it to actually
interfere with the other stuff you're
doing then for the same reason you want
to make sure it's done at the end of the
workout so that it doesn't interfere
with you actually doing as much load or
as much weight as you can on the main
stuff right so at the end of your
workout or on an unrelated day at 1 2 3
extra sets weekly for the big body part
okay so I just finished doing a set of
hammer curls and I remembered another
application of that so if you're just
looking in the mirror doing your hammer
curls you may not notice that one elbow
is tracking much further forward than
the other elbow because you
is look over at yourself right best
thing to do is you know set your phone
down film your set or have a partner
look and see if you know your elbows are
tracking either forward more or
sometimes you'll cheat and get your
elbow out a little bit more right so
it'll kind of come one side come out
more than the other
these are little asymmetries you want to
fix and from every angle that you look
at yourself all of your joints and all
of your moving body parts should be
perfectly symmetrical in every direction
if you're doing a bilateral so that's
something to keep in mind in another
application of that and that is drawn an
answer of how I fix muscle imbalances so
hopefully that was helpful as always
I'll have extra stuff linked down there
in the description gonna finish out this
workout and grab a bite to eat
oh geez see that pole let's take this
for now then this on Teddy this reaction
good this looks amazing to me right now
I'm so hungry
what oh it's so good just to compare to
Denny's you know Denny Denny's is a five
so all it needs is a six to win man I'm
so hungry it's actually pretty good
you sir not bad well salute it not bad
that's not a point scale this time all
right guys that's a wrap for the vlog if
you enjoy the video please leave me a
thumbs up make sure you stay tuned for
the next the next I always find that
hard to say the next technique Tuesday a
vide which is gonna be actually a back
focused movement make sure you subscribe
if you have already you see who missed
that house you guys all here on Tuesday