a recent study showed better qual growth
after doing a whopping 52 sets a week
should you be doing super high
volume welcome back now real doctor Milo
wolf here with wolf coaching and today
we're talking about volume let me set
the scene for you before this study a
few years ago the most upto-date
systematic review we had was by shenfeld
and colleagues in it they compared 10
plus sets to fewer than 10 sets for
hypertrophy there was a WI a
classification of volumes wherein they
just grouped over 10 sets into one group
and under 10 sets into another group and
they weren't a lot of high volume
studies looking at volumes of over 20
sets a week per muscle group at the time
but broadly speaking here's what they
found they found a dose response
relationship between how many sets you
did per week and how much muscle growth
you saw however there has since then
been a more upto-date metanalysis on the
effects of volume on muscle growth
specifically this met analysis by Bas
and colleagues looked at Six studies and
broadly speaking found the following
first for the biceps and for the quads
12 to 20 sets per week for muscle group
was ideal for hypertrophy secondly for
the triceps 20 or more sets a week were
better for hypertrophy compared to 12 to
20 sets with that being said all effect
sizes did Lean in favor of higher
volumes over 20 sets per week per muscle
group and so while the differences
between 12 to 20 sets and 20 plus sets
wen't significant for the quads and for
the biceps just keep in mind that all
effect sizes did Lean in favor of super
high volumes of 20 sets or more a week
at the time of this met analysis by
basalin colleagues there had been a few
studies looking at volumes and excess of
20 sets per week however this is where
the recent study by NS and colleagues
comes in where participants went all the
way up to 52 sets of quads per week let
me break down the study for you there
were three groups before they actually
went home to train they all had a wash
out phase and they familiarization phase
in the wash out phase for 2 weeks they
trained with very low volumes all
throughout then in the familiarization
phase all groups train with 22 sets of
quads a week from then on for 12 weeks
the three groups were separated as
follows the first group the constant
volume group stayed at 22 sets for the
whole 12 weeks the second group added
four sets of quad training every two
weeks during these 12 weeks the final
group added six sets of quad volume
every 2 weeks for the duration of these
12 weeks so at this point you might be
confused one group stayed at a constant
volume one group added four sets every 2
weeks and one group added six sets every
two weeks let me do the math for you if
you average these volumes out one group
stayed at 22 sets of quads a week one
group on average trained with 32 sets of
quads a week and the highest volume
group trained on average with 37 sets of
quads per week all sets of quad training
were taken to rp8 or about two
repetitions in reserve save for the last
set of each exercise where they were
pushed to concentric failure between
sets participants rested for about 2
minutes additionally participants were
free to perform upper body training at
their discretion which often meant on
other days they likely did perform some
upper body training and they also
performed some pretty low volume
hamstring training after their two
weekly sessions of quad training so for
the 22 set group that might look
something like 11 sets of quads in one
session on Day one and later in the week
for their second session again 11 sets
of quads keep in mind these were
relatively trained participants on
average they could squat about three
plates or about 140 kg for one rep to
powerlifting depth additionally their
nutrition was measured so at Baseline
about halfway through the study and at
the end of the study the authors
measured the nutrition of the
participants to see whether there were
any differences between groups that
could possibly help explain some of the
results as far as the exercises used
within the study they used the squat the
leg press and the leg extension volume
was roughly evenly distributed between
these three exercises with a bias of
squat adding volume first leg press
second and leg extensions last the
authors measured one rep max in the
squat cross-sectional area of the quads
and muscle thickness of the quads here
are the results broadly speaking as far
as strength went participants saw a dose
response relationship between how much
volume they did and how much of an
improvement in their Wonder Max in the
squat they saw there was some variance
in this in the highest volume group
there was the most variance in how
participants responded which is worth
keeping in mind additionally and the
highest volume group on average they
were performing around 13 sets of squats
a week so they weren't doing 37 or 52
sets of squats a week and now for the
hypertrophy results there were some
differences in the measurements of
cross-sectional area versus Muscle
thickness but let's not read too far
into those broadly speaking there was a
dose response relationship between how
much volume you did and how much growth
you saw essentially the more you trained
the more muscle growth you saw while
these results didn't reach statistical
significance they were pretty pretty
consistent so I'm reasonably confident
that there is something there once again
though it's worth noting that the
highest variance or essentially how
differently the different participants
within a given group respond to for
example the highest volume the variance
was largest in the higher volume groups
so if you wanted to form a very basic
interpretation of the study you could
say more volume is better for both
strength and growth for strength at the
most on average they did about 13 sets
of squats so that might be better than
say five five or 10 set of squats a week
for strength gains and for hypertrophy
it seems like doing up to 37 average
weekly sets leads to more growth versus
doing average of 32 or an average of 22
sets and I think that's a pretty
reasonable interpretation we'll get to
what the rest of the data in the area
says in a second but before we do that
let me give you some more advanced
interpretations of how you could see
this study first you could interpret
these results saying adding volume every
week or every two weeks might lead to
better hypertrophy as compared to Simply
staying at the same volume I don't think
you'd be correct and here's why from the
data we have overall it doesn't seem as
though manipulating volume week to week
really causes any differences in
hypertrophy there's nothing inherently
beneficial about it however we have
pretty compelling data that more volume
all else being equal is better for
growth until a certain point past which
you couldn't recover and keep in mind
within this study one group constantly
train at 22 sets the second group on
average trained at 32 sets and the final
one the highest one one at 37 sets so
these groups didn't perform the same
volume across the study there were
differences in the volume performed not
just in how they periodized volume or
added volume week to week and so my
strong hunch as a sports scientist is
that the results aren't because they
added volume week to week but rather
because they performed different amounts
of average volume the second
interpretation which I think is pretty
reasonable is to note that there was
high variance in the higher volume
groups as I mentioned in terms of
strength in terms of hyper H trophy
generally responses varied a bit more
when you're talking about the highest
volume group doing on average 37 sets of
quads a week and up to 52 at the end of
the study because there was higher
variance potentially what you could say
is that some participants may have
trained too much to fully recover and
thus maybe saw worse gains than they
would have if they trained a little bit
less some participants saw much greater
responses so potentially for people who
don't see much hypertrophy doing more
volume could be one approach but on
average it does seem to deliver better
hypertrophy basically the high degree of
variance just means you may want to
individualize how much volume you're
doing to maximize your growth a final
interpretation of the study could be
that this is kind of in support of
specialization phases for hypertrophy in
this study they performed some hamstring
training and they were free to train
their upper body on separate days versus
the quad training but by and large they
very likely didn't perform as much
volume for say their upper body and
certainly not their hamstrings as they
were for their quads so it's essentially
they were performing a quad
specialization phase and by specializing
on the quads and Performing pretty
ludicrously high volumes it seems they
saw more growth and so potentially
specialization phases might be a really
viable option after all you probably
couldn't do 37 or 52 sets of quads a
week on all muscle groups at the same
time because you'd be spending like 20
hour on the gym and that's the caveat
number one from the study doing a super
high volume approach for all muscle
groups at once like isn't feasible
because of time constraints and
potentially because of recovery
constraints there might only be so much
your body can recover from before it
simply cannot benefit from additional
volume and so if you were to try super
high volumes for all muscle groups at
once you may not actually benefit from
it versus running a specialization phase
wherein you only increase volume to very
high levels for a few muscle groups at a
time copy up number two the people
within the study were training very hard
someone posed me a challenge shout out l
Donald keep it
rolling keep it
Go holy
[Music]
[ __ ] to perform one of these sessions so
one of those really hard sessions the
participants in the highest volume
groups were doing at the end of the
study these sessions were 26 sets of
quads with 2 minutes rest green sets
nine sets of squats nine sets of like
press eight sets of light extensions
someone challenged me to do it because
they didn't think that it was feasible
to actually do it in the gym and that
the study was a bit you know eyebrow
raising worthy I did the challenge I
completed the session and let me tell
you it was hard so the participants in
this study were training really hard
potentially you couldn't be doing this
for all muscle groups at the same time
next big Kat as I mentioned earlier if
you only look at the peak volume of the
highest volume group you might say it's
completely nonsensical 52 sets of cards
a week probably isn't best for
hypertrophy and in fact maybe halfway
through the study when participants were
training in the highest volume group
with about 35 sets maybe that's when
they grew their best right but then they
went up and up in volume on average keep
in mind we're comparing 22 sets to 32
sets to 37 sets so don't go thinking
that you need to do 50 sets for
maximizing hypertrophy to date 52 sets
is the highest volume any studies ever
really looked at more caveats perhaps
the participants didn't estimate the
Reps in reserve or RP super accurately
the research we have on how accurate
people are within a lab context at
gauging how many more reps they could do
in a given set suggests they're usually
less than one rep off so they should be
pretty accurate however when we're
talking about this many sets with
relatively short rest times it may be
the case that on average participants
were a bit further from failure than you
might be likewise because of the short
rest times within the study each set
becomes a little bit less potent and so
if you're resting three four five or
maybe even more minutes per between sets
you may find that you need fewer total
sets to get the same hypertrophy and so
you might want to adjust these numbers
downwards on account of each set
becoming more potent with longer rest
times with all these caveats in mind do
these caveats actually invalidate the
findings I don't think so and in fact I
think the easiest way to determine
whether
they should invalidate the findings is
to look at other studies within this
area let me break it down for you right
now besides this study there are five
other studies looking at volumes over 20
or 25 sets a week and comparing that to
an approach of doing 10 to 20 sets a
week per muscle group out of these Six
studies in total four have found a
benefit in terms of muscle growth to
doing 20 or 25 or more sets a week
compared to just doing 10 or 20 two have
found no difference and so when you you
look at the literature overall what
you'll find is that either there's a
benefit to doing these pretty high
volumes or there's no drawback
interestingly relative intensity or how
close to failure you train seems to
display a similarly positive
relationship with muscle growth such
that the closer to failure you take a
set the more growth that set is going to
cause roughly causing double the muscle
growth of a set taken to fiveon reserve
when you do a set to failure so it seems
like both very high volumes and training
pretty close to failure or to failure
causes more muscle growth now my
takeaway personally from these two areas
of evidence and if you want to see a
video on relative intensity click here
my personal takeaway is that you should
be training very hard for hypertrophy in
terms of volume and in terms of relative
intensity as long as your recovery is
permitting it if your performance week
to week is reasonably consistent or even
creeping up a little bit there are
potentially more gains on the table if
you choose to increase volume a little
bit or train a little bit closer to
failure on average whether you should be
prioritizing training with really high
volumes or training a little bit closer
to failure is unclear there is a met
analysis on the way on this topic and
that's been my good friends Zach and
Josh from their strength so keep an eye
out for that but for the time being it's
a bit unclear whether you should
prioritize volume or training closer to
failure let me give you some takeaways
first we likely benefit from more volume
than we previously thought potentially
for muscle growth up to 20 or 40 sets
per week now this really creates an area
for specialization phases because you
don't have enough time to train
typically with 30 40 sets a week per
muscle group for every muscle group at
once and because there might be some
recovery concerns in that approach
specialization phases where you really
try and focus on one or two muscle
groups at once can be really beneficial
in this regard equally what I think you
should do is generally just train a
little bit closer to failure add more
sets than you usually would and see how
you respond maybe you don't even need a
specialization phase second takeaway
doing 15 sets of squats a week roughly
was better for strength gains than doing
about 10 sets or about six sets of
squats a week and that's excluding
accessory volume in terms of accessories
they were again doing another 20 to 25
sets of quad training a week across the
leg press and leg extension in the
highest volume group so if you want to
maximize strength gains in the squat you
might want to do about 15 sets of squats
a week and that's excluding any
accessory work takeway number three
we're never interpreting any of this
volume research keep in mind rest times
are lower than you probably use and
they're usually only training one muscle
group or two really hard my final big
takeaway for hypertrophy train hard add
more volume train closer to failure
provided you can recover from it you
will see more growth and with a plant
just falling down this is the end of the
video if you enjoy the video comment
like subscribe donate to me on PayPal so
I can actually [ __ ] hang that plant
up for a second and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in the next one
[Music]
peace