[Applause]
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses given me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
and we are back again dr. James dr. Mike
weekly webinar welcome folks so today I
think we have a relatively short one so
might not be quite as long as last time
but last time was like two and a half
hours so kind of some slack it was a
good one yeah and we'll have some of the
YouTube as well so shall we get into
agreement let's do it
James Kitner I'm telling you there is a
type of safe called the kinder normal oh
yeah hmm James kinder says Janis thank
you for answering my question for the
last week for the record I absolutely
have a huge-ass it was very to have the
fact divine for my question after going
through my Instagram to make sure all my
booty shots are taken down I've taken
advice and grabbed the newest fitness
standards for the dark web and will
focus on them you told me what I needed
to hear
glad we could help yes and yeah
daughters two of them oh geez our
apologies fortunately my previous
military experience and access to great
jiu-jitsu coach has allowed me the
dubious assurance that the only boys who
would bother the oldest would have to
get her permission first and the
youngest is growing up in a house full
of various color browns left over for
her older siblings good problem answer
my question was the answer to my
question was staring me to face thanks
for me see that trying to half-ass
prepare get a test yep got it for
something this important is not a good
idea
I look forward to asking her in the
future moving forward and focusing on my
training to test for military service
have a question or two the timed run
seems pretty straight forward it's not
optimal to run and hypertrophy training
but it isn't a terribly long run and I
should be able to program it if not
easily then at least practically sure
since I already have large hands things
for managing to sink my battleship on
the physique observation I'm not too
worried with any physique disruptions
there believe it or not I used to run
ten Kay's in the summer one so I have
decent recreational knowledge of how to
work off to a modest mileage into temple
work that's really good actually I was
gonna say like a lot of people who were
running for the first time ever just
have absolutely no idea out of context
always running training but you have a
huge advantage that used to
kay is like the running they do free
army is just not that hard like you just
got to get it done and get in shape for
those times people do testing portions
100 cent yeah an actual combat but yeah
the testing portion is just like he said
it's very very straightforward
likewise pull up and set up portions
aren't a huge concern I think as the ABS
don't hurt much Allisyn programming
totally and I'm already working my lats
and arms with pull-downs and rows on my
template folk there so we would advise
you to switch to practicing actual
pull-ups according to army standards
before you tests for months James yeah
yeah definitely agree with that and then
I think we might have touched on this
last time I don't quite remember a lot
of these things we'll just go up to like
if you like lose body weight for example
and like your pull-ups will just go
through the roof either way yeah one
thing to keep in mind too and again I
know they updated the standards and I'm
a little out of the loop on this but
they're not dumb they're not graded it's
more of a check for those of you who are
not where most of the time it's just a
check kind of pass/fail yeah so like
doing more that I think you need to hit
like whatever what is it like 60 sit-ups
whatever in the test like you don't get
a better score for doing 80 you just
need to hit 660 and that's it I don't
know if that's the actual number if I'm
just making shit up so sure a lot of the
stuff like you don't have to like go all
out it's pretty easy within like one to
two months to get acclimatized to pull
up sit-ups push-ups and doing like a
one-mile run like you can really ramp up
your score pretty easily pretty quickly
and he said focusing on diet and weight
loss should bridge the gap and allow me
to at least pull the minimum number is
ignoring the weight loss for the one I
want to ask about push-ups but before
that what I would do for sure is aim for
better than minimum in your training you
should be able to hit more than minimum
standards on your worst training day a
few weeks out of the test so that you
know that you're coming into that test
in you're killing it I would not just be
like oh I hit the minimums once but not
on the same day all of them it wasn't
throughout and pull-ups stuff I wouldn't
hover because a fail past is a bad thing
it just delays a bunch of your plans a
bunch of times they let you retest that
I'm sure you're familiar with that but
just make
sure you're overqualified James a dad on
that yeah I think just having a good
margin of error even if you just like
show up and have a bad day like if you
had the flu like inexplicably right and
then you just show up in York I got a
bang out this fucking one-mile run and
so like on my worst day with you know a
good buffer I want to be able to pass
this test so what Mike's saying is like
give yourself a fudge factor in that
hitting the minimum standard right you
want to be able to hit the minimum
standard plus like 5% on a shit day so I
agree with that yeah all right push-ups
some background I using the beginner
template I started 2 meses ago all these
are pounds not kilos not a particularly
strong I've worked my bench up to 255
for three sets of eight for one sessions
mm-hmm overhead press for 185 for 10 2
times the dropping to 165 for two more
sets the next session then bench 285 for
six reps and dropped two sets after my
after as my third day okay it's good
good pumps not much Dom's and ready to
train the next session pretty well these
are live with lower body and one back
moving at each push session that a
dedicated arm and back pulldown the
fourth after listening to podcast I
decided to try one minute to push up
effort and see what I ended up 27 reps
and my chest was on fire paused for four
breaths and squeezed on seven more
that's it shit well isn't she I knew
what would is the push up standard for
the military I don't remember cups there
is it's like a timed you have to hit X
number of push-ups in a certain amount
of time and I want to say it's like
forty or fifty but again I might be out
of the loop my question dropped to once
a week match day for strength and work
two sessions on push-ups I essentially
have to work on clearing lactate right
do I just download every push-up channel
and you can go balls-out a gene huh no
no every muscle fiber to slow twitch
marathon machine knows orgasm is there a
decent way to train this is a short term
and then focus on maintaining a
reasonable number push-ups until I'm
called up to test I'm not trying to
optimize anything here I would just like
to crack on fifty push-ups in a minute
which seems very doable of my current
staff there we go fifty I seem to think
I did 64 before I got out of active duty
too long ago just not sure how to train
for push-ups maybe but a ballet training
to get me there
where's their source for this stuff all
I've gotten online are how to ads and if
you don't want to answer this outside of
your area that's cool too but there
should be something out there right well
so uh I think you're onto it you
definitely have to do more of what you
want to get better out to do more
push-ups what I would do is bench press
that's totally fine for heavy work like
sets of five to ten once a week
another time week I think it's a good
idea for you to do push-ups normal
push-ups and just keep them bodyweight
start fresh and try to add a rep here
and they are doing multiple sets same
blog gadlin's as usual but just like you
know start at 3 RI r or and then like
next week go to 2 or ir and add some
reps and add some reps and add some reps
and slowly building reps and another
thing I would also do is maybe use a
little bit of a weight resistance on the
third like day 3 or whatever your third
push day you may have access to someone
that can put a weight on your back maybe
not that's not the important part what I
would do is do some deficit push-ups
just maybe like two or three inch
deficit and what ends up doing is first
of all it's really good for packet
tricep ever trophy because it's more of
a loaded stretch and keep the weight
close to body weight like just put an
extra 5 10 or 15 pounds on there and do
a deficit that'll be way more
challenging than regular push-ups and
the next week you come back when you do
regular push-ups you'd be like oh my god
these are like a joke and that'll
instill those so the push-ups do them
from axe wraps and then the weighted
stuff though that should come out
something like 20 to 30 reps per set by
the first set and then just let it
fatigue after that and that'll build the
kind of slower intermediate fiber
strength and endurance and size that's
gonna really jack up your push-ups and
when you get closer to your test I would
do the push-up rep stuff James Worthy
twice a week yeah getting rid of bench
and then make sure you deal owed for at
least a session or at least half a week
don't do anything hard just do a couple
like sets of 5 push-ups here and there
just to keep the water pattern strong
and then you'll be ready James yeah man
we were on the same wavelength on that
one I was gonna say basically the same
thing that keep the bench for a heavy
day you have a moderate day that's gonna
be like a deficit push-up with like a
little bit of weight like even something
like this this is just like a 10 pound
yes it's really easy wear something like
that and then basically you have the
third
and that's not necessarily in that order
but they have a third day which is
mostly going to be not quite a Marie
upsets on push-ups but pretty getting
kind of close to it so I think in the
early like let's say you had like a
three mesocycle progression the first
one you can pretty much leave it around
like two reps maybe dabble into one rep
on the actual just push-ups when you
move into like the second stage of the
progression you might have like more of
those getting closer to one consistently
and then like on the third one they
basically would all be am ramp type sets
right and that would be kind of an easy
progression and then you might drop out
the heavy benching like Mike said oh and
then he says thanks guys oh by the way
glad to hear dr. James can dress the
part to the beard out here and the
suicide bomb chest rig and be completely
off on a dapper meter as a guy who wears
pajamas to work everyday wears a beard
because it annoys my wife and as his mr.
clean bald I meant no offense my radar
much need recalibrating I know when I
show up in a suit at the hospital for
those rare meetings where the scrubs are
appropriate my all my everyday
co-workers make a big deal out of it
yeah well that's you and James me yeah I
know dr. Mike thanks for throwing a
statement about injury the science
community is doing great things
debunking myths but the nuances of pain
science and better definitions of injury
that's actually how I started following
the crowd you're all are in I didn't
need to imply that I thought I was
really injured I just would get tweeks a
nagging tightness and that I had to work
around if I increase falling too fast
totally expected by the way so don't do
that it has to change to a more linear
beginner template to build a training
history before I return to the volume of
say one of the physique templates I've
used are peas good success before I've
used I've used are peas to good success
before I went back to school but it
wasn't ready for them after my break
what are peas I think he's just saying
like I used our products yeah oh I see
or that's at least how it seemed yeah
that makes total sense again thanks for
the service thank you for your service
yeah I was gonna say wait no thank you
for your service hold on you are no you
no you okay fabien distal er I have a
feeling is he from Germany I couldn't
tell if it was like
fabien or Fabien I was one obvious flaw
yeah hi docks I recently heard Mike talk
on the SSD that sounds sexual it does
sound sexual super strong dick yeah
that's a good idea to have podcast on
how it was better than week dick about
how much more growth one likely gets
from going all the way from any he'd
ever be instead of training at or closer
to mev yeah that's a good question I
think the bottom line was like something
like out of a possible muscle mass gain
of 5 pounds in a year they may be person
loses mean one to two pounds of possible
growth for so this is um it's important
to say that this is like for beginners
and intermediates for the advanced I
think that your meid so close to your
Marvy you have to get here MRV to get
any growth so go just like that in mind
yeah easy training is best for beginners
okay for intermediates not great for
advanced the other way around for hard
training for a hypothetical intermediate
lifter who is not competing and only
lifting to look jacked for training a
recommendation with something like train
4 times for you about 45 minutes with
volume being between MeV and maybe a
quarter half the way up to Harvey please
correct me if I understand your views
have changed or V's have changed um okay
so that's actually totally fine look
like so yeah I mean that's a hundred
percent fine if that if you can hit
those volumes within the 45 minutes four
times a week with all your balls and
haha here come the good questions
there's curious on how your advice for a
person like this would look like for
other areas like exercise selection
super easy okay so we have an index for
this that's coming up yeah we've given
the various lectures and talked about it
before to tell you our key plus folks
when it's coming out of the blue in the
book and it's going to be super detailed
it's very easy it's an index called the
STR stimulus to time ratio
okay the stimulus is there's a proxy by
like you know how big of a pump you get
metabolize well wha how much basically
growth again and the time is like how
long does your entire session take and
every exercise can be given a stimulus
to time ranking so like if you wanted to
train your quads and your glutes and
your hamstrings and your adductors would
you pick four sets of squats where you
pick like one or two sets of every
different
kind of machine like for sure you would
just pick squats because they handle so
much muscle mass at the same time it's
super super efficient use of time
the ultimate STR exercise selections are
compound movements usually paired an
antagonistic style so you should
definitely give that shot so like three
sets of bench and maybe in between those
sets of bench you do sets of rows you
could literally set up like some
dumbbell rows right next to the bench
and do those between that's a real good
idea basically exercise selection
compound movements that have large
swaths of muscle at the same time and he
says what movements Lots might not be
worth of time and effort for this person
looking at front delts side belt salutes
another isolation movements I mean yeah
percent you're gonna you're gonna want
to like your your isolation who is going
to be chose with very sparingly so for
example if you do upright rows hit your
biceps a little bit he forms a little
bit and hit your delts a little but and
traps a little bit whereas if you do
like ISO laterals keeping the traps out
with one arm off the cable stack like
you're gonna be doing just your side
delts more or less like that's a fucking
giant waste of time right so yeah
compound alternating super sets James
anything else on the exercise selection
trip yeah so I think you can also narrow
it down by a comma how much spillover do
you have into like supporting
musculature with the compounds that you
choose so you could go as far as to say
right if you're doing a lot of what
benching and rowing and stuff like that
you might not need to Train delts like
at all you might not need to do a lot of
direct arm training at all if you're
beginner intermediate a little bit just
a little bit right and so you can look
at like how much do some of these
compounds spill over into other muscle
groups and that would be a good way of
narrowing down which one man eliminated
let me let me uh let me get that off the
backboard Sun and dunk it so great setup
this is real nitty-gritty stuff I
suppose is what our p+ is all about so
G's made an excellent point so basically
like someone could take compounds like
wide grip bench like wiper bench does a
great job for the packs but what's it
doing for everything else that much not
like close to revenge still hits the
packs pretty well what is the triceps
pretty well to right so all of a sudden
the more compound
issue the ones that distribute them more
muscle mass over are better movements so
the compound movements where people say
like this really hits the XYZ you can
pretty much just toss those out for the
most
part you want the ones that sort of
people are like it's like multiple
muscles that's a good thing
generally signals to fatigue ratio-wise
for advanced bodybuilders those are not
the ideal exercises career like I don't
even know the bottarga muscle is not
good but for saving time and hitting the
muscles pretty well those are the gold
standards so somebody could say like
okay I can either do tricep extensions
dips or closer adventures well try some
extensions do nothing else hood for sure
off but between trips and close groups
like dips what a try your chest a little
bit but it's mostly just triceps but the
close grip ventures really train your
chest and triceps pretty well so that
would be like the kind of choice you
wanna make and you could do similar
things with like like underhand Close
Grip pull downs and biceps and similar
you can MIT you can imagine a number of
different scenario all great rotors
versus laterals or so on and so on and
so yeah and then he says how much gains
is when leaning on the table the
frequency per muscle group was kept up
two times a week instead of paradise
again to higher frequencies you know so
not a ton the games just come slower
usually but you'll still collect them
it's like sonic hedgehog running for
your level collecting coins it just runs
slower still gets most of the coins just
it'll just take longer so yeah you know
you're leaving some gains if you want
the fastest games possible but you know
you'll still make great progress in most
cases as intermediate now games are not
gonna lie to you when you become
advanced after five to seven years of
innocence training you're leaving a lot
of games on a routine like this may
actually just be a maintenance only
routine at that point so you're gonna
get fine gains for a while but the big
kicker here the sort of little
intellectual tool you can use this when
you're no longer getting fine gains like
it's time to realize that you might have
to do more and I don't know if this this
question is meant to be tied in with the
last one but like your limiting factor
to training at that point is probably
not to the frequency it's probably the
time constraints that you have right
yeah so if you're looking at this and
you're like oh is training two times per
week holding me back looks like no I'm
training 45 minutes per day is probably
yes when you back yes
you know it's raising three hours a week
is holding you back yes and so that's
not that's not meant to it like um to be
snarky it's just like you might be you
might be trying to address the wrong
problem is kind of what I'm getting at
yep
and then he says maybe there's anything
else you would rather not advise advised
to not competitors regarding training
nutrition well so what I would
definitely do because your time
constraints I would start closer to
failure than normal I would start at one
or two reps in reserve because you're
not gonna keep no to tell fatigue
because you're just not training that
much you can you know every time you get
closer close to failure the sessions a
little bit more stimulative you say ah
but it's more fatiguing but we can
handle the fatigue for barely training
here right so I would say from an
economic STR perspective and not worried
about us afar because they're not even
touching that get close to failure like
you don't want a set like you say like
oh three hours better at the beginning
of a measure we could just do two cents
and get the same effect as one set of
zero are but with less fatigue true but
you don't have time for two fucking sets
right so when you get in to an exercise
you're gonna get pretty close to failure
right offhand so get ready to here's
nothing you gotta train hard all the
rest brakes need to be calculated in
time not too short but not very long or
you're not gonna do leave alley much
you're gonna squeeze in a whole lot
which is why the compound antagonist
exercises are solid and he says along
these lines I had a question about James
is talking lifestyle and training so for
someone to the 75% or 50% category how
will training in nutrition look like in
the different phases in order to work
towards goals during the on phase and
not lose all progress during the off
time I love the 50% person do you just
train mev MRV track away food and that's
not training and tracking completely for
six months hope that makes sense thank
you yeah yeah so I think the the
training is kind of up to you and
depends on kind of what you want to get
out of that at that point cuz like even
for example training from mev to MRV
might require you to put in like 90
minutes a day right and if you are
trying to be in more of an off period if
you're somebody like me I'll do that
anyway even if I'm not like trying to be
particularly rigorous on some of my
stuff I'm just using myself as an
example but that's kind of up to you
like you might choose you know I might
just do like kind of ma vie style
training where I trained 45 to 60
minutes I'm still getting pretty good
training at that point I'm not really
leaving a ton on the table but I also
don't want to be in the gym all fucking
day anymore right the nutrition is kind
of where I think you can make some
really interesting points so I like to
take when you
you're on right when you're basically
like I am really focused on either
massing or cutting or counting my macros
and stuff right
and ericom's has talked about this too
before you use that as the blueprint
right you know what that is you know
that's the hardest thing that you have
to do so when you kind of go off and
you're like alright I'm not fussing with
my stuff quite as hard anymore it's not
like you're just gonna throw everything
out the window and abandon all the the
same nutrition practices that you have
been doing you just take that blueprint
of like here's what I do when I'm really
really hard and then just kind of loosen
up some of the ends like you don't have
to what measure every single bit of
protein you don't have to measure how
much fruit you know you're putting it
into the app and doing your meal
check-ins quite as much now anyone who's
at Rp we generally recommend using the
app to its fullest capacity but I'm just
saying as an example right you might not
be checking in every one of those meals
you might just be looking at eyeballing
and being like yeah that's pretty good
making sure like you're just getting
enough of your macros like you can
switch to like iifym kind of style
instead of saying like okay I need to
make sure I get the six meals at these
exact proportions that's easy that's
exact times it's like yeah I got my
protein for the day I'm pretty good I
didn't do a shitty job on my fats and my
carbs were on point for the most part I
had a couple bagels and I didn't really
measure how much jam I put on them but
you know I'm probably fine something
like that so it's really just about
taking the blueprint of what you do when
you're on and then just kind of
loosening up some of the the degrees of
freedom rightly allowing yourself a
little more opportunities to do things
without being so constrained that's
really kind of the the the take-home
point on that one so it's the same stuff
you always do just with more degrees of
freedom
[Music]
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app alright
Imran mob oh shit drop it a
serendipitously figured out an even
better position okay you're on a cot
says is it louder now that's good you're
good okay
hi guys I have two questions number one
I just finished another cycle of the
physique template my first night cycle
it went very well although I do have one
concern it was my first time using rir
and I found myself getting a number in
my head for reps before starting is that
which point I felt that my mind would
force me to stop before I reached my
jewellery our target do you have any
strategies to avoid these potential
problem my best strategy right to meet
you right where you are is it's okay to
have a number in your head but when you
get close to that number when you get to
that number you can even pause for a
second you look looking am I really at
my target on radar and you just got a
real talk yourself you're like I need to
at least do two more reps or you're like
fuck man I look over my heart I gotta
stop now right or you're like I'm pretty
close right you remember this isn't
rocket science if you know one little
air is not gonna destroy your program
it's just a game of averages right and
they've shown pretty well that three
re-arm possibly didn't work
so roughly equivalent in many instances
and hypertrophy Jazira are like it's
fair just very difficult to tell apart
and this there's actually a few good
studies just came out on the arm
beginners but they're like within
subject design so like one leg gets
trained to failure and one leg gets
trained through reps and reserve and the
three open the reserve leg on average
just got better results period so that's
like fuck like if some of us will tell
you I say all the time theoretically is
a very good basis for believe in getting
to failure is a little bit more
hypertrophic then staying shy of failure
by three or even four wraps if you push
me on that say where's the direct
evidence for that I will say there is no
to direct good evidence there's not just
a comprehensive body of literature it's
a couple studies here mayor even if you
take the average studies you probably
lead to conclude that man like if anyone
says one or two reps or you know is
worse than zero are but there's
literally saying something that's not in
evidence right
I just don't worry about it too much if
you're training pretty hard it's great
just real talk yourself stop at the
number or as you get close to your
number let's say you do like Prosser
you'll get a set of ten set offense that
then as you're doing eight you're like
whoosh whoosh okay keep going forever oh
fuck it's not the ten right but if you
you know if you say okay ten and then
you're getting to six you're grinding do
just cap it at eight be fucking done
with it because 10 is gonna be like
minus 1 RR James yeah I think the
trouble that you run into more often
than not is that you're chasing after a
number right and that's the really
there's a huge like number of errors you
can make and I think that's really the
only one you gotta watch out for in this
our our situation where you're like in
the last example where Mike was just
talking about like you you got 10 in
your mind cuz that's what you did last
time and you're like okay I gotta get 10
I don't want to do worse than I did last
time and you get to six and you're like
fuck and then in your mind you're
chasing 10 you're chasing I gotta get to
10 right what's happening there is
you're just on average training too
intensely either you increase the way
too much or you just jumped the gun on
the RIR the last week or maybe you
actually hit your MRV and you're
actually starting to see performance
drops right yeah so that's kind of the
thing where I think the big error that
you just gotta watch out for is chasing
reps when you're when you're already
about to fatigue to get towards those
reps so don't have that it's good to
have like a ballpark place to start for
a set wheel okay I did 14 and 10 last
time so I know on this set I should be
around 10 ish but if you get to like 7
reps and you're like fuck me but you
just in the back of your mind you like I
gotta get to 10
no don't chase after the reps because
more often than not you're gonna be
training at a too high of a relative
intensity yeah that being said if you
start relatively easy at the beginning
of a mezzo and you just try to match
your reps from last week from last week
from last week's eventually you're just
automatically going to hit failure and
that's going to be MRV so it's okay to
match as long as your mattress are
realistically based on what you did last
in your program it is not okay because
the way you phrase it is
you get a number in your head that might
not be realistic so there's two
scenarios here one is you did squats
with 200 pounds 4 sets of 10 ish last
week
this time you have 205 on the bar and is
it ok to target 10 yeah totally
what is not ok and I think this is more
Jameses point is if you're like ok I
last time I hit a PR on this it was 12
reps I got to get 15 you sure that you
pull that number out of your oh yeah out
of a hat and then you get to 10 and
you're like oh my god I can only do 11
but I gotta get to 15 like don't do that
let your body tell you what's going on
rather and there's nothing that you
you'll gain there that cannot be made up
for but just by doing another set if
you're like hell-bent on yeah more
progress right here and now but the
reality is is you're probably not
leaving anything on the table number 2
dr. Mike you've said in many places that
you recommend getting to down to 12 to
15% body fat before bulky I'm 64 and
just cut from 262 to 20 in 3 months
using I desired app not nice because
here's why most of it was muscle because
I was injured and couldn't lift no not
nice
we're on number one recommendation is
that if you cannot lift do not cut he
then says however I stalled on cutting
at around 18 percent body fat
I tell you why that is do you think I
should start implementing some more
advanced techniques to get my body fat
percentage bad no no or do you think it
would we see where this question is is
already ended right like no yeah no so
no not okay to start of all it's not
okay for advanced techniques of the
recommendation here and save Jim James
thinks the same is to immediately eat it
maintenance to keep stay around between
220 and 230 train train train train
train harder and harder and harder so
that you regain lost muscle and all
sudden you'll be leaner and more jacked
at around 220 to 230 and then you can
see how you're looking because you're
probably as you gain muscle you lose
fact will maybe be around like 15% and
then when you're like 230 50% fat and
like the four to six months then you
look great and then maybe you'll cut
down to 210 and then with lifting get
your leanest ever super jacked and then
you can start massing and then then you
can use an advanced strategies which you
probably will meet you
use these remember the advanced
techniques are only pertinent because
you are losing a ton of muscle and
because you couldn't lift if you can
lift that's the most advanced technique
there is for preserving muscle mass
James yeah yeah so not to be snarky
again but it's like you don't need
advanced techniques when you're not
doing the basics things right right so
if you're not lifting like the advanced
it doesn't matter so I agree with Mike's
recommendation there one thing I would
just caution you I mean you did lose 40
pounds that's a substantial amount of
weight even if we don't probably lost a
bunch of fat yeah so but what I would
caution you is even even using Mike's
recommendation which I agree with and
think is good you might actually have to
stay on maintenance for an extended
period of time just to build back up a
little bit because you did lose a
shitload of weight right so I would say
it might be one of those things where
you might just have to like kind of
raise your calories slowly recom for
maybe like one month and then just kind
of stay at maintenance for the next
maybe even one or two months after that
just to make sure that your calories are
in a good spot now matching your
increased workload from lifting and then
if you wanted to try and cut again later
you could do that but you might find
yourself like eating on maintenance
calories and re competent and being like
look yeah everything's going smooth now
that I'm lifting again yeah then you try
to cut and you're already in the shitter
because you've been cutting for three
months and you lost a lot of weight
already so just watch out for that
that's what I would be a little more
worried about yeah maintain for a long
time and it's okay to gain I'll call it
pounds during that time yeah definitely
Dom as an aside righto Chavez mentioned
in a podcast they thinks bigger athletes
have a little bit more leeway when they
can start bulking I apologize I can't
remember the basis for assertion do you
concur I'm not sure I don't bigger as in
like people who are more muscled or just
larger and jaea more muscled hmm not
sure don't have a strong opinion either
way yeah Brandon Armstrong says hey
Doc's got a question regarding form
training and certificate or sexual joke
here there one let's get it out of the
way let's do it he's trying to jack off
man
all right I'm good on trade or what
weight suggests any strength of my forms
for Powell of T and future B today great
purposes assuming I would like to select
exercises for both what would you
suggest as good options for strength and
also I've heard a few purposes in the
past I've had a hard time selecting
effective exercises for this also if
anything happened in the isolation
exercises like bar holds how do you
structure quote-unquote reps imagine
time holds or the rep ranges B for these
I'm interested in both hypertrophy and
strength so I don't know how that would
affect there is a selection based off of
specificity to how close to competition
if it matters a little for the hook grip
instead of mixed the ones the lady
becomes too heavy for double overhand
and only do two sets of competitions on
the per week during upper to be face is
it up to five train straight faces
getting the majority volume from s LDLs
which has worked well for my devil so
Farah this the theory should allow for a
higher volume of forums or imagined you
less taxing use of my forums and
deadlift but I'm not sure how much
either you know I don't want to be a
dickhead but I think we actually
answered this explicitly a couple weeks
ago like we did it did a hypertrophy to
strength period his eyes periodized grip
programming things so I don't want to
dismiss your question because we
appreciate you writing in your question
but I think we actually explicitly
answered this one like maybe within like
three or four weeks ago something like
that yeah I would scroll back and these
are all on YouTube right so you could
just scroll back and look at this check
the timestamps yeah yeah Milo wolf will
post all these he's got timestamps in
there I will say it and they says during
strength phases I'm not sure how this
would change either I'm glad to get back
into BG in the future once my schedule
allows that would like to come back with
an approver as well so just real quick
of the RP strength youtube has training
recommendations or forearm training so
for a while I wouldn't worry about grip
strength I would just train your forums
to be bigger using those recommendations
and in the videos there's video
instructional videos we do have a
forearm
training guide written up it will be
coming out soon so you can wait for that
but then grip strength basically the
time if you do bar holds and things like
that the time has to reflect the amount
of time you're holding a bar in your
competition left and so the
should be you cantide things but the
time needs to be relevant so for example
people would do like a 60-second bar
hold for the deadlift while the deadlift
for in 60 seconds you might hold another
fer to move 10 seconds so do around 10
since you know sets of around 10 second
hole and the reason why that matters is
because the load that you can hold for
10 seconds is a lot different than you
can hold for 60 seconds yeah right we're
just saying you're getting directly
translating to how much grip strength
you're gonna be training yeah and then I
would have invested some grippers like
captain czuv crush grip pros from iron
mind yeah yeah just just go sorry we
didn't mean to dismiss this one but this
is like I swear to God we answered this
one very explicit this it was like the
same period ice strength hyper to be
strength grip question so we're gonna
glaze over that ones from now let us
know and if you can't find it let us
know we'll dive a little deeper and
answer again Shawn Sansom says hello
doctors a strap slash grip question from
last week wanted me to ask about
technique of a tribe I generally have a
pretty good grip from training deadlifts
for a few years without straps but I
decided to start mixing in straps on a
very high rep back workout for example
lat pull-downs in the 20 or 30 range but
in my case I've been using straps only
the first two or three sets of four or
five sets my thought here is I want the
best possible top-end performance on
those first sets but since drop-off is
pretty significant I set three or four
or four I'm sorry persona Tennessee's
one not a limiting factor in the later
sets and to get to receive some extra
stimulus they wouldn't if I kept the
straps on fall four or five sets what he
has think of this approach is a
wonderful approach just make sure that
your grips don't or do not turn into a
limiting factor in your last sense but
that they turn into a close to limiting
factor so if he grips have two more reps
left in them but your lats have one over
zero you're good to go
you just don't want to have your grips 1
or 0 in your last 3 or 4 by those last
sets but I think that's a wonderful
strategy yeah I actually do the same
thing
Oh super mm-hmm I was like usually the
first couple sets like if I get really
high look if you're doing like a upright
row for a set of 120 you know what I
mean like yeah I'll do it
yes for that and but once it drops to
like you know 15 or less I just lose the
straps not because I'm training my grip
just cuz I don't feel like I need them
yeah I do I have you know
like fully invested into the
bodybuilding bullshit so I do a
dedicated day or sort of day I do a
dedicated a series of that was a four
it's like a rich Piana level arm our our
grip yeah I do a dedicated let's make
sure to correct this nice dedicated grip
exercises four times a week three or
four times a week so for me that is a
problem that could solve them a lot of
specificity all right do we go to the
tube that has you in it the YouTube yes
boy a fucking YouTube a let me click
that in how do you work you work like
this like that boom boom you see let's
take a look at my youtube scroll we got
Omar I wasn't expecting this and I named
Josh bridges what happened to my body
after competing by Vitruvian physique it
sounds like a Roman god oh yeah I wasn't
expecting this la vlog by Russell or a
Yi Shawn Rhoden who speaks on IV status
was Joe Rogan transformed how hard you
should train excellent video but John
knows
Thank You Johnny Candido by Shawn
Noriega I know who those people I hope
they're not beefing fix low back pain
five red flags warning I love this
fucking we're about to start doing this
on the RP and YouTube these like super
super click eighty titles in athlean-x X
the X means extreme high rebuilding my
dead left by alpha destiny someone asked
me once like what do you think of alpha
Destiny's I'm like what the fuck is that
like he's got big traps and yeah word up
you've got a real name motherfucker use
that shit
I'm just kidding it's all in good fun
and then we got seven things that are
killing your recovery by mountain
excellent and we've got my response to
Brandon Harding's lies defamation and
slander here are John explained we is
that two videos because the coaching
plan explained what the hell is I have
to do is fine I don't know you're into
some weird shit unless I miss
remembering this I think Reb descent
just did a video like a month or two ago
with Brandon Hardy where like he was in
the same video delay they had a falling
out apparently beef Brenda said there's
a lot of beef or a lot of people ain't
got number love forum you know beef to
me i beef that I'm back I guess we're
good I don't know I'm good right - Milan
wolf says time stamps Milo that's not a
question you've done idiot - dick you're
a moron
hey john jones commented on our video
jonathan Jones said I'm done doing
cocaine and hitting pregnant ladies or
my car did he definitely had the
hit-and-run incident and he's like
recently like choked out a stripper at
hofstra my man Jesus Christ and can you
imagine the strippers like oh I know
self-defense classes wait this is the
best fighter of all time yeah I think
she was just like being a stripper and
he was like bitch bitch how dare you I'm
busy being John Jones which usually
involves choking straight let's just go
to his go - alright first actual
question sneek Willis Luca reality how
do you know push X for choke push
whatever give like give money and then
like ZZZ like it yeah I'm not interested
you feel bad luck you feel bad is that
the John Jones video game I was think I
was like if anybody has ever played like
Mass Effect or fallout imagining like
that exact like interaction where you
interact it's like you there's a
stripper like what do you do like you
push the wrong one oops oops and then he
like drives the cars are driving level
around like really creepy like pregnant
women and like baby see gets eventually
did a flight which he wins easily you
don't have to press any button
specifically cuz he wins alright so
anyways yeah
oh my god all right Pete yes Nicholas
Lucca Riki Artie says spy someone if a
muscle can only feel tension
why is rotating exercises sometimes
necessary overcome a strange plateau so
a muscle can only feel tension imposed
from various angles and different
exercises impose tension from different
angles activating different parts of the
muscle in addition to that strength is
the use of multiple muscles in sometimes
relatively complex activation patterns
by the very complex brain and it
involves muscle strength that involves
tendon connective tissue strength it
involves a variety of organelles and
organs like the Golgi tendon organ
desensitization etc and involves nervous
system fatigue and systemic fatigue so
yes a single muscle cell can essentially
sort of feel or register tension and a
few other things like metabolites not a
lot the a muscle itself the muscle group
like the pectoralis and muscles the
muscle fibers there in feel of very
complex and multifactorial tension so
that exercise rotation can make it
different impression a different tension
over all different angle different
vector and that can change things and
also it's not just the muscle it's
involved in building strength it's a
bunch of other stuff cumulative fatigue
nervous system adaptation so on and so
forth and different exercises are have
very different profiles on all of those
things James yeah and just like at a
very simple level like and this is not
necessarily true for just strength
plateaus but any kind of plateau that
you run into in exercise any given
exercise will develop adaptive
resistance over time and to put that
more explicitly you have a problem where
your mev gets so high that it might
actually be frowned the same part as
your MRV so you can just keep doing that
same movement over and over again and
you're just not getting anything from it
so the reason why you would use
variation in this case is that you could
actually benefit from picking a movement
that has built up less adaptive
resistance and it's more responsive and
then you can still train those muscles
making them bigger and stronger or
whatever it is that you're trying to do
and move on with your life that's the
idea yeah James it okay if we do like
five questions today because a couple
years are super short I'm just kind of
on a rant oh yeah we had a pretty short
list from
from our rp1 so let's do a Sweden Peter
Winkler says what would in a muscle
isometrically is meant sorry Wangler
that's pretty sweet man I was thinking
it was Wrangler but then I they're
interesting junior high experienced
mature there's it meant to be inferior
if rapper trophy isometric loadings
meant to be favored for hypertrophy why
do many people record their best upper
back gains from heavy deadlifts and
let's see we have a guess here we have
our YouTube community answer almani Alba
Stott says the upper back opens up
during the lift to some extent making it
an eccentric who loader that's my guess
of it definitely contributes I would say
that the deadlift is your isometric
training is not the best for her trophy
but it is a component so it works fine
it's just not the best um the amount of
volume and load imposed by deadlifts to
those muscles is so fucking massive that
they get stimulated really well it's not
the most fatigue conscious weight of
training the stimulus to fatigue ratio
is not great if you don't care about the
fatigue and you're still doing deadlifts
holy crap they're a great way to have
really really good upper back thickness
the thing is though if you want the
thickest upper back you can have while
training everything else really hard
you're not gonna do a whole lot of do
super heavy take a look at almost every
i feet pro bodybuilder if they have done
to lift in the past some of them not
really sometimes they go heavy most the
times neither don't deadlift go
relatively light because there's all our
muscles rose and the variety of other
kind of poles that do a really good job
for chromatic not scared your training
but without as much as a fatiguing so
yeah so also keep in mind to right most
people experience their best like upper
back gains when they're beginners and
then becoming intermediates and the
deadlift is just a really cool mics that
has a really just huge raw stimulus in
terms of how much volume and intensity
that you can use it to train the other
thing is the deadlift is a relative I
mean like we would argue that there is
lots of technique considerations but
it's pretty much a low technique
exercise for the most part you just pick
it up off the ground so again it's a
really easy way for beginners to take
advantage of a huge stimulus when
they're making games so it's like you
know it's hard to learn how to squat
it's pretty easy to learn how to
deadlift so if you want it's just one
that people pick up pretty
and easy you can use a lot of weight and
it gives you a lot of stimulus so that's
why it's so that stops happening once
you become an intermediate right yes and
then you have to do the fitness fatigue
considerations yeah super cool question
Nicola says does eating pineapple ruin
games Rimmel Ian's an enzyme that helps
break down proteins in either logician
so breaks proteins down into individual
amino acids which means they absorb even
better so it doesn't ruin gains it might
enhance them but it doesn't have some
cuz your stomach never has a problem of
digesting proteins and healthy
conditions so it's really just
irrelevant although I heard that if he a
few too many pineapples you're gonna get
so small people gonna you're gonna
disappear off the face totally kidding
there's no merit to this whatsoever
yeah not sure what the fuck said that to
my dude they're gonna tell us who said
that to you yeah that's a rough one
interesting related question real quick
Evan Pollak oh says is it true that
banned work increases connective tissue
and bone mass no and well yes well as
much as loading anything does James yeah
I was gonna say for for people who are
relatively untrained absolutely but
can't do anything else right we're
talking about people who are mostly like
stationary but anyone who is a regular
exerciser but by that I mean like they
lift weights like 1 to 2 times per week
and do some cardio 1 to 2 times per week
the bands aren't really gonna help you
in that regard because they just don't
generate enough volume and/or intensity
intensity being an important one for
bone mass in particular so yeah I mean
it's if you're untrained sure if you're
an exerciser then probably not yeah now
the ultra products on the pineapple yes
that man and the band work increasing
connected you show the band somebody
claimed that you know like that's
something like that's something that was
I guarantee you was in a study where
they had a bunch of untrained or old
folks doing like monster walks and then
they did like a DEXA scan and so so all
of us might increase yeah I've been a
part of studies before where we were
doing research for like space
exploration so to speak and seeing what
kind of protocols could increase or keep
bone mass etc off and we were using
bands because you can't have weights in
space they're pointless coach
so I think there might be some stuff
floating around that band works somehow
especially increases connective tissue
in bone mass because of the fact that
people take into space the fact is that
the bands are a real third-rate shitty
way to train behind actual weights but
it's based at all you got yeah last
question for today this one I had
together
Elijah Clifford says Kino body oh so
Chris's name is Greg something rather uh
suggest doing Bulgarian split squats
instead of regular squats to avoid
getting tree trunk thighs that can't fit
in jeans and to target the lower thigh
VMO more so the VMO is not necessarily
the lower thighs it's a part of the
lower thigh there's other parts is the
most efficient way is that the most
efficient way to a fuck me now physique
without losing athletic ability from not
doing traditional squats
Greg keeps saying X taper repulsive
females um what I think this one's too
much for me I'm gonna I'm gonna respect
respectful tests I don't you're not
gonna pass I'm making you answer parts
of this ok so it said Whizzer William o
beat us to it he said if you don't want
your legs to grow why don't you just
train them at maintenance volume ok so I
there's a lot of different so that's
that's definitely good response thank
you William oh you're a better person
than I am so I think there's what we're
kind of getting at is like if you want
they're like fuck me now physique what
he's basically saying is like from a
male perspective there is some
advantages to not having giant legs
which diminish the the appearance of
your Wang right and so he's basically
saying like okay so I don't want to just
like not train legs but I want to look
good and am i leaving any of my athletic
abilities on the table from not doing
the squats the answer is yes absolutely
there's only so much that those those
split squats are going to do for you and
also like what are you gonna do just do
split squats for the rest of your life
at theme you know what I mean that's
like you should probably do some
elements of both I think doing a regular
squat does everything that's what it
does and you can just train them at
lower volume just training but
maintenance volume says William Oh
suggested I think that's a very good
recommendation I am not really I kind of
get the I can't
that was a serious question or if it was
like that no it's a serious question
James I don't know this is crusher by
Elijah but I think these are serious
ideas proposed by key nobody folks so
like like it's it's a question that
shoots itself in the foot because saying
like do split squats instead of regular
squats because you don't want tree trunk
legs well that's it it's immediately
admitting that the the split squad is an
inferior movement if you're saying that
the regular squats give you tree trunk
legs lets you change like they work well
you less regular squats is William
really knocked it out of the park just
do fewer regular squats and you'll spend
less time doing stuff you'll still have
athleticism what I would say actually if
you want to fuck me now physique but you
still want to be athletic trained legs
with mostly squats and like stiff legged
outlets and stuff in the strength range
just can't I'm fucking strong and
they'll be big enough to be cool looking
but not bodybuilder big you're good to
go and the thing is like to avoid
getting tree trunk fires money nobody
out here you haven't reach on thighs by
accident the fuck up out here
how many cloth fuckboys you ever seen a
tree trunk fucking thighs fuck
what you got a word for them shits man
what's he talking about the X taper am I
not any gas Davis like you know big
upper body small waist and then big legs
oh this guy says the girls are repulsed
by the X taper I'm not so sure that
that's true maybe they don't want
someone with really big legs yeah I
think girls are repulsed by like giant
giant people like you know if you're
like a huge gorilla friend it's not like
the most average desirable I would say
like normally like the the men's
physique Beachbody look is probably the
most desirable and like the gorilla
look is probably on average the least
desirable yeah I would say Jared feather
has the craziest x-ray micro seen on a
living person and he was you know the
world's come to a fucking end dude this
shit is like the fucking disease that
follows him around in a literal sense he
has he has all the diseases I'm totally
kidding here I think I'm getting any but
honestly it's just these man mentally
leper
what but I mental a moral leper that's
the move that means you also make other
people immoral when you're around them
oh they just um
no like I wouldn't worry too much about
your ex tapir being too extreme for
females like there's not a goddamn I'm
wonder the case so maybe Monday she's
that kind of thing say busy isn't gonna
fucking time in this world where she
goes back to her girlfriend yeah he was
cute but if the next table with to be a
fuck out of my face Jake deer a car
wasn't expensive enough you didn't have
enough game folks learn game there's the
glue jet like all the shit on the
internet for free to read learn about it
it's mostly just game how you talk to
people and then like don't be a fat
piece of shit and if you have like a
nice taper and fucking waste with
absence and bigger upper body muscles it
sort of just doesn't matter we like to
look like and by that I mean if you're
like sir small girls don't really care
if your legs are big girls only care as
long as you got all those factors so try
to become wealthier try to become taller
I'm not sure how that works you know
you're good-looking as you're gonna be
and then just stay in really good shape
don't worry about your legs just make
sure you have a sort of muscular ish
like a workout I workout upper body
being lean is really good because girls
I hate like the defined ABS sort of fuck
ab muscles on the side the obliques and
then your fucking golden maniman and
then you got to realize that you're
probably a fucking insult like James and
I am you don't ever leave and you'll
never get laid ever in your life so it's
all been for naught
yeah I'm still this this one really
Minds fucked me unfortunately um fuck me
physique James that's what I want fuck
me now okay so girls have another
physique where they're gonna like delete
fucking physique or she's probably
fucking later also but like the part
that's really tripping me up is the Greg
keeps saying X taper repulses females
it's like why don't you just figure that
out on your own why are you listening to
what other men are saying about what do
you it's good advice right maybe I guess
it's like but like go and interact with
women yourself and find out what they
you know if if they're like man your
body is really repulsive because of the
way you know your muscles are so big
then you then you have some grounds to
stand on yeah until then like do what
you want to do and be excellent at the
things that you choose to be excellent
at not because some other person online
said okay late a lot more yeah I mean
come on man I'm sorry if you were asking
a serious question I I suspect there was
like a hint of troll or cheekiness in
there I'm not sure but if you were
serious than I apologize for coming
it's not attitude but as here's note
Elijah just train your legs with squats
and any other exercise you want just
train them with very low volumes
relatively heavy weights that's of three
to six usually three to ten and you'll
get super strong to be able to jump
higher run faster kick people harder and
you know because you got oh boy that was
an interesting one to end on Oh gasp so
I think we're gonna wrap this one up so
if you guys enjoy our silly banter and
all the content from Rp make sure you
hit that subscribe button and Mike and
I'll be back next week with more
questions cool these homies later