I mean even washboards are jealous right
now looking at this Photograph feeling
bad about all my life decisions whatever
I will say testosterone
helps I didn't even have to say
[Music]
it folks welcome to the show I am Dr
Mike iSell for RP strength and I think
I'm a professor of exercise and sports
science at Leman College in the Bronx
and today Mr Allan richson is going to
be the focus of our investigation will
really I make a lot of obscene sexual
references uh at his benefit really and
try to figure out if his training and
nutrition some combination of that are
spoton so let us begin our investigation
get your tissue papers out and uh make
sure the door is locked and Grandma's in
the upstairs room and go so you bulked
up for this role I I I did yeah yeah I
usually walk around at like 205 yeah
thanks guys oh yeah you know you're in
shape on the crowd starts
cheering who's that the first guy to to
to do the howling sounds I understand
some clapping Jesus Christ guy we're in
a studio have some restraint I'd
probably be running up on stage to try
to grab him uh consensually at least in
my mind oh my God cuz I I want to be a I
want to be average I got you know I'm an
actor I got to be able to play like the
dad and doctor and the superhero
motherfucker why don't you play the dad
and doctor you're talking about you only
play one role as far as I'm concerned no
two that one football
series from back in the day Blue
Mountain State Blue Mountain State
people like Scott who have no friends no
one to love them watch your shit and uh
then uh you you play Jack
Reacher which I think is absolutely in
my top two Jack Reacher depictions rank
one is Tom
Cruz anyone want to debate that as a
matter of fact Mr Allen richon you seem
like a really tall U really tough guy
he's huge and jacked and can probably
beat people up but uh we only all ever
do one thing when Tom Cruz is around
cower kneel and become a
reverent it's the proper thing to do
it's a full-time job to eat enough to
put on 30 lbs I had an assistant whose
only job was to bring me
food rich
people I love you in fact I am one of
you maybe the richest of them all no no
Mr Nick Shaw RP CEO is definitely the
richest but I'm a close contention for
second place in the trillionaires Club
when you say something as a full-time
job it makes it seem like it's hard and
then when you say sarily that you have
delegated that full-time job to your
assistant making it not hard at all for
you it falls differently on the ears but
very VIP very Flex the status I love it
um SC video guy we're pretty famous
right I mean we're the biggest fitness
channel on YouTube
hey um where the does my assistant make
me shit bro I'm still microwaving my
wife yeah right you want to go ask her
for shit I get stabbed like that
microwave my own meals out here and
gaining 30 pounds anyway I'm just
jealous Alan richan is a real celebrity
and I'm some nobody on YouTube God damn
it still anyway it was like a conveyor
belt of smoothies and protein what does
that look like like as far as like he's
like well it's literally a conveyor belt
just a mechanical device to pull all the
items across it load bearing how many
times in a day like he's like I don't
know man it's whatever the conveyor belt
brings I I never really count him my
assistants do that for me hundreds maybe
what Scott did I catch that right they
say he at hundreds of times a day yeah
this a joke hey hey whoa thousands I
would order the crew like Popeye's
chicken sandwiches cookies just so I
could get the kind of calories I wanted
um and it looks like a a Goodwill
gesture
wow what's that called dreamer bulking
where you just eat fun foods that have
some protein in them and blow up it's
dope it will pack on the pounds much of
that it will be fat I'm curious to see
what the time frame was for you gaining
30 lbs but if you're doing it with popey
chicken and cookies might be a pretty
short time frame a lot of fat not so
much muscle I wouldn't recommend this
for folks at home and some of you may be
right now typing into the comments but
Dr Mike he's on steroids first of all
you don't really quite know that yet do
you although I think he's been public
about trt which really means
steroids um I wouldn't do that on
steroids either because then you gain
some quite a bit more muscle but still
gain way too much fat and the impact to
your short-term Health uh and perception
of how you feel if you eat junk food on
steroids is like way worse you blo more
your blood lipids go straight to Hell
your blood pressure skyrockets it's all
terrible uh I wouldn't have done that
this way but maybe I don't know enough
about the inside of track of how real
Hollywood operates so let's continue to
examine you know leave a dozen of those
in my trailer
please that was insightful I had a good
Baseline because I you know for the last
20 years I've been doing pretty much the
same thing um when I was 17 and a half
maybe um going into my senior year high
school I was a very late gloomer um and
I I sort of decided you know I hope this
shit gets somewhere real soon yeah then
like my dad left and I did a lot of
crying got a part-time job at a gas
station you know it was a really
formative experience for me they're like
okay yeah weightlifting he's like yes
wouldn't know anything about that when I
couldn't wait for puberty anymore I was
like I'm going going to start putting
muscle on somehow and so I started
working out and I did that every day for
a year without missing till I I cut my
hand pretty bad one one day but um don't
train every day for a year that's a bad
idea if you're training every day for a
year from a lifestyle perspective maybe
it's cool but guys your body grows when
you're resting not when you're training
take it a few days off here and there
five six days a week is about as full
bore as you ever want to go rest days
are important um a lot of people look at
this kind of stuff and sort of tacitly
absorb the idea that well that's what
dedication looks like every day team no
days off remember as I have reminded
before on this channel there was
actually no team no days off there's no
application there's no number of members
on that team there's no management
structure there is no formality there's
no team and you're not on it you're just
a person that doesn't understand that
rest promotes better gains than just
training all theing time you know I was
so consistent I was and I've kind of
always been consistent alen's on to some
real shit here so consistency is huge
and a lot of people will look at a
gentleman like him and like it's all
steroids bro but like probably most of
it is just training for fucking forever
he's like 40 I think so you train for 20
years some shit happens and if you kind
of detrain a little bit muscle memory is
a real thing so if you have to retrain
up for a roll start really going hard at
it again and eating really well maybe
not popey's chicken and cookies well but
get some calories and protein your body
starts to grow really really fast again
that Baseline is huge getting initially
really fit way tougher than getting fit
again if you've been fit before so a
lifestyle a lifetime of training it
really does add up for sure aggressive
body weight workout with High Reps you
know where I get up to doing you know a
25 pull-ups at a time false
uh almost everyone who says they can do
25 pull-ups is implicitly lying and not
explicitly lying because they think they
did 25 pull-ups because whatever they
counted as a pull-up they got 25 of
potentially but remember most of this is
not coming down under Ecentric control
to a dead hang to where you just hang uh
with fully relaxed at the bottom and the
chin at least touches or nears the bar
at the top almost nobody can do 25
pull-ups like that except for I guess
skinny old 17-year-old kids might be
able to pull it off but uh generally
speaking again why am I saying this
people think 25 pull-ups is like a thing
that people do actors and Hollywood do
it even even 17-year-old children can do
it so it's like a reasonable goal to set
and then they never accomplish it and
then they think what the hell am I doing
wrong uh if you can do 10 proper entric
controlled full depth full coming up all
the way pull-ups holy shit first of all
your back's going to be massive and
second of all that's a really awesome
accomplishment that almost no one can do
so 25 yeah maybe I wouldn't B on it I
learned a lot in the process because you
know I also did a little bit of damage
going as aggressively as I did knowing
like I have this you know my my my
livelihood depends on my size for this
you yeah it's a trip man that's a trip
well welcome to being a professional
athlete first of all in a sense he is at
this point because he's professionally
training in a form of Athletics to make
money on screen um this that's a trip
because uh it's very different working
out for fun versus working out for like
the better I look for this role
potentially the more I get resigned to
bigger and bigger roles and then I'm
going to the Oscars and actresses are
looking at me with that eye that I could
be their next fling and well all good
things all things I imagine for my
myself Scott do you want to go get
famous in Hollywood with me let's do it
how do you think we're have the oral
skills already Au you are oral or oh oh
yeah for sure you are a sound engineer
by training so I was loading up as much
as I could every day five days a week
bad idea but Allan knows that and I just
started like tearing things in the
shoulder and you know getting injured
and the back went out and um uh so you
know I I so I put the weight on but uh
you know I I needed to learn how to work
in a way that's you know supported
longevity very important very good um
and so I I I started looking into
hypertrophy
and hypertrophy hypertrophy where have I
heard that before Max hit that ad
baby there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure your prog pring on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
[Music]
results first group of exercises that
we're going to do is work in the buys
and tries everybody's seen this before
but what I like to do is work with the
Rope for both the top and the bottom so
personal preference I hate the Rope it's
the only thing in the world that hurts
my elbows um terrible but if you like it
great I just generally find that I can
produce substantially more force with a
fixed bar and the Rope also tends to
accentuate that Peak contraction and
minimizes the load on that stretch and
that's actually the opposite of what you
want to do for muscle growth it's been
shown pretty conclusively now that you
grow a little bit more muscle when
you're stretched at the top then like
how important it is to squeeze at the
bottom it seems to be not so important
so for that the Rope isn't great again
if you like the Rope hey fucking love
the Rope do whatever you want with a
rope all sorts of creative things do
there's a few internet websites for how
to use ropes in a variety of interesting
ways but um yeah is no magic in the Rope
I'll tell you that much uh we're going
to do a tricep pull down super set where
we do a pull down push down not pull
down you're pushing not pulling but I'm
just being a pedantic asshole because I
have nothing else to do also 15 to 25
reps is actually a great rep range for
many people in the tricep press down
press down press down push down works
too not pull down just pet peeve like
most pet peeves reflects only poorly on
the person who has them and then we're
going to drop that rope and we're going
to do kind of looks like a hammer curl
we'll have a video on this at some point
but the hammer curl is usually a
gigantic waste of time why because the
parts of your forearm flexors the bra
Etc that you hit with hammer curls are
hit soing well with every single pullup
and pull down in row that you pretty
much ever do that is it's not great also
because the biceps are not uh your hand
is not in a sated position it doesn't
really Target the biceps as much as it
could and so hammer curls are kind of
like yeah they have their place but
their place is generally at the bottom
and I'm not a huge fan the rep range
here is good the technique looks pretty
fine to me right trying to aim for 25
reps of each four sets yeah that's a
decent stimulus if we look at this as a
numbers game and we take that old school
model of working out that I grew up with
that I was told a million times where
you do maybe eight eight muscle groups
three sets of 10 times you know I do six
sets the hypertrophy begins between 15
and 25 reps that's when the hypertrophy
begins uh it's really five 30 reps but
because 15 to 25 is in the middle of
that range it's a fine number to shoot
for the last thing we're going to do is
move to the Easy Bar we're going to do
those famous
21s
21s 21s let me tell you guys about
21s if you had to design a system of
training that was wholly arbitrary you
probably couldn't do better than 21s why
the three different Rangers of motion in
that particular sequence no clue why 21
also no clue don't worry the person that
initially designed it who has been
forgotten by history as far as I can
tell hey Eric Helms probably one of the
world's foremost experts on bodybuilding
history and exercise science history
Eric if you see this let us know who the
in Vena 21's and why hasn't the hag come
after them yet um look real talk real
talk is a fine way to train it's fine
but you probably don't watch this
channel for fine you probably watch it
so you can get more jacked and more lean
than average and uh G whiz is just a
whole lot of arbitrary nonsense
specifically a lot of reasoning exists
for doing a full range of motion first
and then when you're too tired to do a
full range of motion you do the bottom
end partial that's a great way to train
because not only does the bottom end uh
give you that deep stretch underload
which is more hypertrophic but you're
too tired to do the full range of motion
anymore so it's kind of like a miniature
drop set it's like a mechanical drop set
so that works it checks all the boxes
that would be fucked sweet so if you did
21s in the sense that you did 14 full
range of motion reps and when you got
really close to failure you did seven
partials that would be super dope but
that whole like first you do down here
where you're actually mechanically the
most challenged and thus you get nowhere
close to failure then you come up here
where it's also pretty easy because the
force factor doesn't exist at the top as
far as gravity is concerned and you're
sort of like kind of tired a little bit
and then you do full range of motion
Reps for seven it's just I've tried to
piece it together in my head how it can
be defended and rationalized it's just
really really hard really hard to do
folks if you are enjoying this video so
far we have a
longer harder uh uncut uh harder video
in the member section and you can access
that by subscribing to be one of members
cost a little bit of money but maybe
it's worth it and we have tons of other
bonus content for you give it some
thought um that's enough but if you
really want to put the icing on the cake
it's good to get a body weight pump so
I'm going to hit the dips a little bit
one of my favorite workouts what the fu
is a body weight pump people say that
shit all the time by the way it'sit
different no it doesn't it's the same
resistance same Force curve same
everything uh let's check a look at his
dip
technique yeah it's okay he could go
like 50 times lower and get way more out
of his triceps oh and by the way for
folks that think dips hurt your
shoulders they don't and for folks that
have hurt their shoulders dips before
either you had it coming genetically the
injury came from somewhere else entirely
or you up your Technique dips through a
very high degree range of motion super
super stretched are safe for the
shoulder joint and they make your
shoulder joint stronger and they blast
your triceps in front DS and PEX to
theing Moon um by the way if you're
going to get in the comments that you
may very well uh saying shit like Oh I'm
a PT and I can tell you for a fact as a
PT a PT here and I'm going to tell you
that dips are no good for shoulders shut
the up sorry I was mean but you're wrong
I mean even washboards are jealous right
now looking at this Photograph feeling
bad about all my life decisions all I
will say testosterone helps for all
the I didn't even have to say it
and now he's looking out at the camera
to try to punk you out he testosterone
helps pussies at home bitch assm do some
shit I'm Jack Reacher and I did it
without any help no steroids no
testosterone nothing good for
you huh testosterone helps I put on a
ton of muscle without
testosterone he's going to clarify just
hard work uh I go to the doctor and
let's do a blood panel he's like oh you
have no testosterone I was like okay you
know I guess I beat it out of myself it
is actually possible to do not in the
literal sense of course boom molecules
fly out uh you can get to such a high
level of training that you get into a
technical state in sport Science called
overreaching and one of the measurable
effects of overreaching though it's not
super clear but on average it happens is
your cortisol starts to rise which is a
stress hormone that burns muscle oh good
and your testosterone starts to fall
your testosterone to cortisol ratio
inverts and that's real bad news and um
sometimes reflects itself in very low
testosterone which makes the whole thing
a gigantic upill battle but in in
Allen's case in many other people's case
the yes that definitely doesn't help the
fact that they're overreaching but also
sometimes people in their uh 30s and 40s
experience what's been sort of
colloquially named andropause it's like
menopause but for dudes and basically
your your your nuts are like kind of
taking a cigarette break and don't
really produce as much testosterone as
they used to sometimes much less and
then uh if you get on testosterone
replacement therapy that fixes the
problem it can really really improve the
out of your life we do have a video on
the RP Channel about trt and if it's
right for you maybe someone will link it
somewhere here I don't do any of that
stuff I don't even know how the internet
works to be completely honest um I just
assume there's a miniature version right
here on my laptop of the literal Allen
richon uh miniaturized put into two
dimensions and uh requested to act out
the scene what he did for this gentleman
and his show that's how I think the
world works but the internet's full of
amazing things I hear including memes
Scott are we ever going to become a
channel which for every line of actual
content we insert uh a kind of like very
poorly known Japanese girl anime meme
what
Aspire weebs of the World Unite so we
started on testosterone and it was like
oh my God like a new me like a new me
and uh and and ever since then you know
it makes my job easier there's going to
be less wear and tear cuz I don't have
to push it's not it's I don't have to do
what I did to replicate that again um
also if you do what you did that is
train a crap load and you're on
testosterone you're just going to get to
an absolutely new level of size
altogether so it's not true that
testosterone and all steroids are
testosterone derivatives it's not true
that testosterone steroids are are
necessarily a shortcut they can be they
can get you the same results you would
get without them but with way less work
maybe half the work but it's also true
to say that if you do the same amount of
work you used to you can actually get
way more assults so um I would say he's
probably still training prettying hard
and getting really great results uh I
wouldn't exactly use testosterone I was
like hey I can just take it easy now and
still be in good shape you can if you
want to but certainly not a very high
doses cuz then it's like why are you
beating up your health to just look eh
but it's been great you know and and if
you're you know 40 years old if you're
you know late 30s early 40s and you're
you know just starting to feel like
you're slowing down it's it does it so
many it's it's so instrumental in so
many mechanisms in your body damn facts
bro this gu this guy's a biologist I
love it it's a mood stabilizer backs you
know it it create it helps uh you know
take hemoglobin into your cells backed I
didn't I never took testosterone till
well after season 1 so like it's
possible to do it on your own I believe
that for some reason when a handsome man
tells me just about anything I believe
it come into my minivan that has all the
windows duct taped uh sure Mr handsome
man take this pill okay tie yourself up
definitely that was nice uh uh a little
bit of BS as usual everyone's uh guilty
of it me mostly and uh a lot of good
stuff so what I would take away from
this video is that pick a way of
training for you that's sustainable use
good technique don't push yourself too
hard but also sustainability means
consistency so if you're consistent then
you can eat some bullshit and not have
to kill yourself in the gym because
you're kind of always at it and you're
always in really good shape even if you
do a little BS here and there so uh
awesome uh Mr Allan uh if you ever see
this hell hello it's been Dr Mike and uh
see you guys next time all right that
was fun folks YouTube thinks you're
going to like this video right here and
if you click on it my Butlers literally
get paid more which is awesome isn't it
give it a click