I think the overhead extension is a
better tricep Builder than the push down
while the push down is often performed
in commercial gyms the overhead
extension is likely a better choice
according to three studies on the
triceps the first two studies are
Studies by stasak colleagues and myoan
colleagues that both compared the push
down to the overhead extension the staki
study broadly found slightly better
hypertrophy in the overhead extension
versus the push down there were a few
limitations though their sample size
consisted of only nine people however a
study by my and colleagues address some
of these limitations specifically they
had a larger sample size of 21
participants whether they measured the
long head the lateral media head or the
triceps overall overhead extensions led
to about 40% more hypertrophy compared
to the push down and finally a study by
godu and colleagues looking at the
school Crusher found that doing mid to
long length partials led to more
hypertrophy compared to doing a full
range em motion and so for overall
tricep growth all else being equal
overhead extensions are likely better
for tricep growth than push Downs that's
why