hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization and I'm joined by a guest
and a friend Meno Hensel men's from the
world I was going to say the Netherlands
but he really is the citizen of the
world a digital nomad an international
man of mystery and he's here to answer a
few questions that have been posed to
both he and myself
I'm various social media platforms
Gawker tinder the dark web and all those
kinds of just normal social media
jazeera al jazeera dotnet gov mom and
here we go ready for some questions roll
all right question number one what is
both of our do you want to just answer
these as averages our average one around
you could go height weight and current
body fat percentage madam you're the
guest
I'll start so my stats don't look so
insane ridiculous comparable is I'm six
foot one about 185 centimeters I'm about
200 pounds so good 90 kilograms around
10% body fat so I'll be a bit heavier
like 205 up to 210 if I go heavy during
a bulk and conscious prep I'm a bit
lighter well now for the really
ridiculous numbers right well the
heights not so ridiculous I'm five six
which is like a meter 69 and hence 969 I
weigh currently 235 pounds and I'm right
around 10% body fat as well just take a
moment to realize how absurd those
numbers are well happiness some of us
you know I'm saying
just not not gonna incriminate myself
next joke alright number two lifting
stats one RMS of benchpress back squat
deadlift an overhead press I can start
this one out and say I don't know any of
those because I trained for hypertrophy
and I don't do anything below that's a
five and haven't for years back when I
was a lifter my best benchpress in
competition was 385 pounds best squad
and competition was 490 best deadlift
was 567 and best overhead press back in
the day back in the day was 225 for for
sin
then as I hypertrophy trainee my PRS
over the past several years in the
benchpress I've done 365 for eight with
no Archer no retraction
I've back squat at five hundred pounds
to twenty seven five four ten high bar
and these are full squats not
powerlifting squats
I've dead lifted from a three-inch
deficit with no belt conventional 550 or
250 kilos for five and I have overhead
pressed and this is on video 125 kilos
275 pounds for eight full repetitions
standing at a body weight of 240 times I
I'm about here that a bit over free
under its bench a bit over 140 squats a
bit over 400 high bar I could do
probably more low wire that lift is
about 550 a bit more and overhead press
is a bit over body weight so I think I
did 84 times 6 184 times 8 I think one
of my better lifts Romanian deadlifts
probably my best lifts they're at a 200
kilos I'm 16 also on YouTube yeah that's
the police right yeah number 3 favourite
lifts and most hated lifts can you start
us off with both man I really like that
lifts and offer presses because I'm good
at them so those are probably my
favourite lifts but I actually don't
that lift that much because I don't
think it's very ideal for most like
Berkeley so I've made me the Romanian
deadlifts and least favourite yeah
anything like Bulgarian split squats
one-legged lungis pistols any one legged
squat stuff I definitely hate man most
hated lifts for me it's tough because I
have many kinds of hatred on several
different categories one is experiential
hatred like it hurts me to do the lift
and it doesn't feel good what is like a
technical hatred where it's a stupid
lift and I think nobody should be doing
it um I say my favorite lifts if I had
just choose one lift of all of them
would probably be the high bar squat
Olympic weightlifting style is just
something sitting deep and upright in a
high bar squashes kind of magic
my body was filled for
pletely so I love that and as far as
like most hated lyft or one that I
really don't like um I would say G Oh a
cable rope tricep pushdown it just hurts
my elbows and that's all it does I swear
to god it doesn't do anything else yeah
Gupta random tip by the way on my
triceps training because a lot of people
get elbow injuries from them move the
arm around so do them with a supinated
grip for a lot of people that solves a
lot of issues with push downs on the leg
yeah and if you're gonna do that get
some bursar grips so that your thumb is
not the limiting factor on the lift back
squat high bar or a low bar I'll answer
first
I prefer high bar for hypertrophy I
think it feels better I think it's more
sustainable is lock up all your joints
Lamar is by far the best if you were
able to get into the position for
strength and for competitive
powerlifting it's awesome outside of for
competitive powerlifting even for the
building of basic strength I think high
bar is better low bar has a number of
problems um it'll hurt either your for
your wrists your elbows your shoulders
or all of those if you're sized more on
the large side a large people are very
very hard time a little bar squatting
but so what I would say is you know for
people who are training per trip your
basic strength a little bar squatting is
probably not a good idea and that with
the trade offs if you're training for
powerlifting you do it insofar as it's
good for powerlifting but all your
supplementary work etc should probably
be high bar yeah I start by saying that
for power lifters for sure it's
basically low bar even if you think it's
high barred and objectively for
performance it should biomechanically be
low bar yeah other than that actually
work the article if you go my cell you
search squat Smith's I show that for
muscle growth and for most purposes
they're not that different like some
people act like they're completely
different lifts you know and the main
differences are how the influence joints
torques and a bit a little bit rays of
motion but muscle activity is very
comparable between high and low bar
squats and it's much a matter of
personal comfort and which joined some
more sensitive
generally I are on the side of high bar
for men
bar for women because women don't tend
to have as many hip problems and they
also have the flexibility to do low bar
squat as well and they want to focus on
the hips more whereas men that they want
to focus more on the quads and do well
with high bar for the reasons Mike
mentions I think it's an overall
probably better safer list in terms of
stimulus to fatigue ratio deadlift
conventional or sumo actually Co offered
I think the only paper on this that
investigates whatever power lifters or
whether people should deadlift
conventional sumo in terms of what
they're best at in terms of body
structure like metrically and we found
that it doesn't really seem to matter
like we found some very slight trends
but overall it's basically a matter of
personal preference and of course what
you're used to so we did it in that
leaves trains but that lift that of
individuals and we found that body
structure did not influence what you're
strongest at so it's probably almost
exclusively a matter of personal
preference for strength that is and what
you've done before so a lot of people
think oh I'm much better strong zoom or
much better conventional because they've
been doing it that way for the past
months so try both see what you're
stronger stats for muscle growth though
the answer is I'd say definitely
conventional for most people in general
I'm not really a fan of either deadlifts
honestly for I'm also graphic Romanian
deadlifts if you really want to do that
lifts for muscle growth it would be like
deficit that lifts snatch bar that lifts
with a controlled eccentric contraction
yeah I would just add I agree with all
that I would just add that deficit sumo
deadlift in for many people is a very
great way to stimulate a doctor and
growth but then someone could say why
don't you just do deep sumo squats and
there's not really any really good
response to that it's usually there
correct so you know conventional
probably is better for back hypertrophy
and for really skinny people for whom no
number of Metro's is enough because
they're still too weak and too small
conventional deadlifts can be fuck your
fucking back for sure I would just do
that like medicine probably from a
deficit probably with a great degree of
eccentric control which is to say that
the
very very painful and annoying but you
know I'm saying muscle growth ain't easy
neither is pimping all right team Cavs
warty no Cavs I'm not an insult on
reddit so I have no idea what the fuck
these things mean I wasn't never part of
a team but on a serious note I think if
you don't like to hear of a lone wolf
maybe have oh do you remember the dog
fight we saw earlier a couple days ago
Maggie and Zeus like that that's the
kind of wolf I am we uh we were at a dog
fight meadow and I were attending a dog
fight and we had two dogs in the fight
they're both mixed Frenchie and English
bulldogs it was a ferocious there was so
much growling and unfriendly play anyway
um they were friendly dogs they are him
and that's Frank if you don't actually
go to dust that was an actual dog fight
justjust in case YouTube's gonna go in a
couple more yeah but on a serious note
look here's the thing if you don't give
a shit about your calves fucking do you
but that applies to every muscle group
like if someone's at google good your
calves are small you're like yep look I
don't train them what they're gonna say
look hmm that's it but if you want a
calf sweet the calves look great yeah
yeah I think for a lot of people if you
want bigger calves you gotta train them
and the same principle applies any other
muscle group if you google three reasons
your casts aren't growing I wrote a good
article on that what you can expect
realistically in terms of growth from
them genetically and ways that most
people fail to train their calves when
they do want them to get bigger yeah
just quick summary of how to train
calves and train them very infrequently
probably once a week maybe once every
two weeks you want to only do bent
raises and use as much weight as
possible so it just kind of just do this
very limited range of motion that's the
way to get big calves for a moment when
you started I was like I think we're
gonna need it for Invisalign
you're right I said too much uh every
two weeks at most probably every three
but on a serious note I probably could
predict what you said about calves they
respond well to a very high frequency of
training with a not sore Traynham again
a high degree of range of motion and
mostly with straight legs and you'd be
surprised that high repetition Rangers
actually affect calf training
very well so don't train them like you
would a deadlift very infrequently with
very low reps and low sets and very
limited range of motion training them
with a high degree range motion
emphasizing eccentric super big stretch
treat them as often as they recover and
be patient because they take a lot of
growth yep
and have a good heart hitting exercise
like I like calf jumps with eccentric
overloading because the gaps can handle
that stuff and don't always do your calf
work at the end of your workout yeah
that's a big one people are like man my
rear delts won't grow and they have like
presses side races side razor's presses
and then one set of like rear delt flies
you're like wow weird I wonder why yeah
good good call alright favorite food you
would have no issue eating every single
day actually the most most things I need
every single day and most of those
recipes are on my website but if I could
just eat whatever I wanted which I do
most days I eat sushi I could be the
sushi everyday sushi I could also eat
sushi every day but the thing I would if
someone's like oh he have to eat this
everyday pasta pasta like it's women to
see if pasta if I was an astronaut and
we approached the planet that was
fettuccine alfredo seas I would take no
life raft and just jump right in about
the pasta the natives of that why you
come up from space I'm like I knew you
guys would talk like that number eight
what can't you live without I will
actually answer that question directly
modern medicine and that applies to
every single person watching this no no
so she see his medicine someone you've
got like coronavirus you're like okay
give me sushi carry this sauna runs in
with like a bunch of rolls an hour later
you're like ah take off the breather
maybe you've got the wrong rolls what is
this favorite book or movie the or
movies for people like me who can't read
thank you thank you for asking it that
way yeah I like a lot of movies and
series like I'm the B top 250 that kind
of stuff
watch Ozark recently like that first
season of all the carbon is great second
season
or four empires great series Shawshank
Redemption is a good movie so good and
you cry I don't cry like I think those
organs them yeah me neither
yes yesterday I cried from laughing with
you right I cry every time I see Cho
Chang production if you want to see me
cry just show me the scene where he
approaches the boat towards the end and
I'm just gonna be friends again I'm
legitimately considering crying right
now
I can't think about that movie ah my
answers Forrest Gump I was gonna say to
my wife and I watch Forrest Gump at
least once a year prophylactically and
we both cried together multiple times
through the movie as far as so that's
like one of my favorite movies my
favorite movie of all time is ghost in
the shell' with Scarlett Johansson I
have no particularly affinity for her
but ghost in the shell' is as close to a
religion as far as I can tell as far as
a movie is approached like Jared feather
and I both want to die in an Asian super
Future mega city surrounded by half
machine half human hybrids Lily knew
everything about them moving her guest
guest more as far as books a future book
is probably tough to talk about
favorites but favorite book that I
recommend to many other people is basic
economics by Thomas Sol if you want to
make sense of the world and then begin
to hate a lot of people comment on
economics read that book it'll fill you
with evil yeah other good books free
economics then you'll Gilbert's books
Jonathan hates books like the happiness
not offices
those are grades Steven Pinker's books
Oh Steven Pinker the blank slate good
God
enlightenment now good lord I'm gonna
try to rip off Jonathan night's work and
make some money on a published book they
would call like the happiness theorem
and their site all his work like
hypothesis and please I can do better
than that
the happiness postulate alright number
10 a quote that defines your life slash
values
tolerance is the virtue of a man without
conviction god damn that's like you just
made a position against the idea of
tolerance
it's pretty fun sweet yeah goddamn um
pimpin ain't easy yeah yeah I'll stick
with that it seemed brighter than it
seemed right it's still right now but
still right again honestly uh quote that
defines your life and values you know
there is a quote on my facebook by an
economist Thomas souls oh man I deeply
respect this essentially to the extent
of like you know don't confuse
cleverness and wisdom that comes pretty
close I would also say that quote to
paraphrase of I'm Rand that the the
meaning of one's life is their work is
much actually more accurate of what my
life's all about if you know if if you
have miu meaningful productive work that
you enjoy then it helps others it
improves everyone else's life I think
that comes pretty close to you being a
fucking ball of human but this way if
you have a meaningful productive job and
you're helping other people as a
functioning member of society I don't
have any fundamental beef with you may
use the Russian Jew so he's a little by
the table is all right so number oh and
it says send me hey a lot in your native
language you go first
as that ah sweetie uh or triple minus
five meters go out of its ass and I I'm
not from deer - man oh alright this is
gonna seem a bit anti-climatic after
that hello you don't even speak Dutch do
you he just puts on the fake accent he's
from Oklahoma he's tied working on my
accent isn't even Dutch well nobody can
guess where I'm from based on accident I
would just say you generically northern
European you know Norman Europe is like
a country we dish alright next question
what Olympic sport do you find the most
impressive and why bull vaulting an
Olympic weightlifting for me probably
just they're so technical
I wish strongman was an Olympic sport so
that would be sweet actually I don't
wish that because they would drug test
it and ruin the whole fuck
or it would just be drug scandal all the
time yeah yeah we should receive the
attention of Olympic sports
it had the formal organized competition
but without the ridiculous drug Fiasco's
um to me the most impressive I would
have to say marathon uh to watch an
Ethiopian man with a smile on a space at
mile number 16 going 600 miles an hour
like what the fuck he's like we like I
would be first dead and second of all
miserable in death super impressive I
can't like I can't even relate to that
level of effort and and being okay with
pain just like all right that next one
what exercises that are huge effective
you don't do it because you hate them
laughing that's the same answer for both
of us will we do them anyway yeah but I
do eight spit squats and like I hate
split squats to I don't do them because
I do walking lunges instead which I also
hate no I don't hate walking lunges but
Oh actually I'm gonna answer this a
curls I don't like to curl I don't even
like to Train my biceps I love to
training my triceps I love him to death
I trained biceps begrudgingly I hate
every part of it I have just a dog ship
mind muscle connection incline dumbbell
curls recently have been like an
exercise that is it worked pretty well
for me but I still don't even like it
that much any kind of curl I'm like that
which is stupid right because that said
everyone else is like favorite exercise
yeah I like doing curls but I lean in
countless ships is nice you're full of a
mirror of course next question
second to last one if just Ostrom is low
but in the normal range do you think
there could be any benefit of the Robo
and zinc supplement and I guess blonde
is it moron look we really knew clear
reactor power alien I need boron yeah
now it's only beneficial if you're
deficient in ITER it doesn't matter if
you're so super clinical or whatever
your testosterone level is you're
deficient in zinc or boron you'll
probably experience an increase in
testosterone levels if you supplement it
otherwise you won't so for most people
you probably won't have to
well those ink is actually a bit more
difficult than most people realize to
consume enough of if you don't consume
wrap meat or shellfish in your diet or
organ meats then it's it's
likely you would actually benefit from
zinc supplementation at least in terms
of well-being or libido in the long term
possibly also for gains I actually only
eat shellfish that were fed cattle
during their farming they it's like a
like a pond a mini artificial pond of
shrimp and the cows like long and they
just push it in the shrimp devastate the
ship they're like piranhas shrimp so I
even problem saying yeah Meadows answer
is great I have nothing to add last
question but someone has a hard time to
grow and feel a muscle group can you
find any benefit of implementing pre
fatigue I would say the number one thing
you want to do is look for exercises
with which you can have a better ride
muscle connection specifically
perceiving a high degree of tension
through the target muscle during the
movement a lot of times once you find a
great exercise or several you just do
them first and they function both as the
fatigue and the pre fatigue at the same
time but if some exercises just there's
no exercise that's really amazing for
you but isolating it with pre fatigue
makes your perception of the muscle and
makes it the limiting factor on other
movements for example cable fly's aren't
that great for your chest
neither is incline barbell press but if
you do cable fly's before bomber press
for multiple sets and get close to
failure on the barbell press you feel
your pecs as the limiting factor to the
movement much more usually your triceps
are that I think it's probably worth the
trade-off I just wouldn't go there first
if someone says to me hey incline
barbell press I can't feel my chest my
first thing would be to work on their
technique on the incline barbell press
my second would be to look for alternate
compound high force production exercises
for the chest that they feel better in
another thing I could tell them is like
looking me
the - air connection is something that
really makes a difference in advanced
individuals most individuals by the time
they're advanced have no problem feeling
a shitload of exercises because the
technique is so going to my muscle
connection so practice if you're
beginner intermediate you say have a
problem I'm also connection with feeling
I'll show you shut the fuck up and keep
it quiet bar opressing and get much
stronger and your pecs will grow so
there's my answer for that yeah I fully
agree with that overall it's much better
to find an exercise that you don't need
to do creep
for like a compound exercise this is a
really matter if it's compound or
isolation just want a good exercise for
a muscle group
the overall literature on pre fatiguing
is very very unconvincing for example
for a flat barbell bench press have been
at least two studies showing that a few
back deck before flat barbell bench
press your tricep activity is actually
higher than your bench press so you may
feel your pecs bored because they have
more neuromuscular fatigue and
mathematics dress but it's a triceps is
actually objectively doing more work and
muscle activity in the packs is the same
so for for most muscle groups all it
does is you induce a weak link if you
only have an effective exercise like the
flat bar will benchpress four packs you
do flies before that you just induce a
weak link and you decrease your total
work volume so it's not gonna be that
beneficial it's gonna be basically the
same for a pre fatigue muscle group and
worse for the other muscle groups same
way of doing I think other studies look
at leg extensions before squats or leg
presses also doesn't benefit the quads
it just makes the squats or leg presses
worse for your glutes back etc yeah I
mean if it's a systemic fatigue from
these exercises if you normal ranges are
so high that it interferes with when you
train those other target muscles later
and then pre fatigue can be a strategy
by very big very strong people to just
make the session more focus to the
muscles you want and not to the muscles
you don't but overall hypertrophy for
the whole body is not enhanced by free
fatigue unless you use it in that very
strategic in that point quite to be
honest look Boreas and time consuming
way so the worst is when people are like
yeah I work out four times a week and
I'm pre fatiguing my chest I'm like for
the love of fucking God but if you're a
huge bodybuilder you're tired of bench
pressing four hundred fucking you know
pounds for reps to get your pecs to grow
and your joints are really beat up pre
fatiguing is a good idea from a stimulus
to fatigue perspective but like men who
applied not from a raw stimulus
magnitude perspective boom alright on to
Facebook
yeah the coca faces a couple more
questions for my face to pitch from
enemies work John Caputo asks assuming
an advanced trainee if the trainee is
making consistent strength progress over
time three
months then is it likely that
hypertrophy is occurring even if the
volume is low if they are gaining weight
yes if not it depends on the magnitude
of strength increases general rule of
thumb I have is that if without specific
powerlifting training so you're not
doing one RMS and I like your your focus
on bodybuilding type training and you
gain at least 20% strength on Nam novel
exercise it's very likely that you are
getting muscle mass overall especially
in the long term and more advanced
lifters doing non novel exercises so
exercise they're used to doing you don't
get new begins then there is a very
strong correlation between strength and
muscle growth but gaining up to 20%
strength on a new lift doesn't have to
mean much that could be almost entirely
neuromuscular neural specifically
adaptations rather than morphological
ones like muscle growth yeah and three
months you can gain neural strength
adapt tation for a year or more and so
three months really isn't very good
cutoff point then they say if the volume
is low well if the volume is low the
probability so like Meno said you know
if the volume is high and you're gaining
weight then yeah there's a pretty good
chance you're gaining muscle if you're
not gaining weight and and the volume is
low or let's just say if the volume is
very low
just probabilistically if Menem and I
had to guess it wouldn't be as certain
that you're gaining muscle
if someone said like I'm gaining
strength for over three months and I'm
doing like you know 20 sets per muscle
group in that 10 to 20 range am i
gaining muscle matter when I probably
like yeah maybe if someone was like okay
but I'm doing three sets per week for
muscle group but I'm getting stronger am
i gaining muscle we'd be like like maybe
but I'd certainly less of a bet so if
you really what you really want to do is
make sure your training volume is
sufficient to cause gains by
experimental incrementally very slowly
adjusting to do higher and higher
volumes and see if you are gaining
strength faster and if you are then for
sure you're now gaining more muscle and
potentially even more neural adaptations
as well so what I wouldn't do John is is
say just weld yourself to the low
training volume idea and
I hope I'm growing muscle like you can
find an organic volume as that enhances
your chances of growing muscle
independently of being attached to one
volume level or another all right Kevin
Cockerham it's a sweet name how relevant
do you think HRV is as an indicator of
fatigue hmm I've actually written a
couple posts about this and the
literature is quite unanimous that HRV
is a very poor measure of strength
training or muscular fatigue have been
several studies that looked at its
ability to predict performance its
ability to modulate training frequency
when you train like you train when HIV
is positive doesn't enhance muscle
growth
it doesn't correlate with neuromuscular
fatigue pretty much any measure you do
it's its measures are confounded majorly
by whether you're standing or you're
seated by what time of day you do the
measurements so basically it's a whole
lot of noise and probably worst of all
it's gonna do is a huge nocebo effect
that I've seen in many clients many
times that have come to me and said HRV
and tracking atrophy it works really
well because when I look at the measure
in the morning and it says your workouts
gonna suck then indeed my workouts suck
but that's because you read it you think
oh my workouts gonna suck you give it a
half-assed effort and then indeed your
workout sucks it's a self-fulfilling
prophecy
whereas if HIV says you're gonna get an
amazing workout you go to the gym wild
up you give more effort you're more
motivated indeed the workout is good
you're just propelling this
self-fulfilling prophecy and it's not
that the data is actually telling you
anything
HIV I think for most purposes for
strength training at least is not
useless yeah James often and I have an
article on juggernaut strain during our
training systems about the multiple time
courses of detecting fatigue and we say
they're about HIV and actually all of
the heart variable stuff is if anything
it's a lagging indicator of fatigue like
by the time that stuff is predictably
disrupted
you're really really fucked up in
addition to that it works because it
might like - Ed it's a really stochastic
element like it's really just there's
tons of noise but it works really
decently for large teams of athletes to
see if the total training ball
exposing the whole team is too high and
it works decently well over incredibly
long measurement periods but because
it's a lagging indicator it doesn't
actually tell you anything you don't
already know Nick by the time heart rate
variability is really really fucked up
to the point really oh wow this is
clearly a trend you know someone's gonna
be like okay what are you surprised do
you like no I'm super fucked up my new I
was beat up right so it's one of those
like like what James Hoffman would say
it's like a collecting data without
knowing how to use the data well a lot
of people are collected cuz it's numbers
it's science but it's creative what does
this tell you that you didn't already
know isn't worth the data collection
it's like it's like trying to analyze
whether or not there's clouds outside by
doing like a spectrogram analysis if the
colors coming in the course if you look
outside there's no clouds but I we don't
need to see how much blue light versus
white light or whatever so same idea
sorry you know it's not so unscientific
when we do show like that you know like
are you sore no then you're fine it does
a good point that collecting did that
does not make something scientific it
has to be applied science otherwise just
yeah I mean you can you can track you or
your heart rate your HRV your step count
or your calories if you're not hearing
through diets you know doesn't matter
that you're tracking all of those things
for sure all right Shane Duke it says if
we're doing say four sets of eight reps
on a big compound lift how does resting
five minutes between sets compared with
resting two hours between sets for
instance someone doing chin-ups as a
part of a 75 minute workout versus doing
a set of chin ups before each meal what
so like yeah four times in two minutes
actually ever interesting anecdotes
about this at the first gym I trained at
in quark I'm in the Netherlands the gym
owner there was a huge guy and he
managed the whole gym himself and also
the cafeteria outside and he cleaned it
he ought the repaired all the machines
he just managed everything he also gave
some classes manage the reception answer
the phone so he never had time to
actually do a full workouts he worked
basically from getting up it was his
Jimmy also lived upstairs and then he
went to bad afterwards so he never had
time to do an actual workout so he'd do
all of his training as like one set and
then he
go answer the phone or it helps on
reception one more set and throughout
the whole day you basically interspersed
these daily activities with like sets of
what he was supposed to do in his
workouts and that can work perfectly
well basically it sort of hints at the
intersection between rest interval and
training frequency now when is it still
a rest interval when are you talking my
daily workouts and the effects are quite
the same the increase total training
volume if you rest longer so that you
can do more volume with your next set
because you don't have as much newer
muscular fatigue especially metabolic
stress you're going to be able to do
more volume and to the extent that you
can recover productively from that
volume it's gonna enhance your gains so
it's actually positive is just really
time inefficient and potentially
problematic if you have to warm up every
time before you do one set Gino's boom
so that was gonna be I have to sort of
theory one practical critique and one
theoretical critique where a theoretical
pratik there may be a minimum amount
especially for advanced athletes that
they have to present as far as
disruption per any given session for any
given stimulus and anything less might
just maintain their muscle verses
incrementally increase it
we know that muscle growth is not a
linear and sand to the pile kind of
growth it's more like constructing a
skyscraper or if you don't have enough
electrical equipment for the next floor
none of that floor might actually be
functional so you know satellite cell
incorporation by a nuclear to me an
expansion some of that may mean you'd
have to keep an open mind to this kind
of stuff work and slightly nonlinear
ways with only the presentation of a
really superlative stimulus gives you at
some point any growth anything less than
that even if it's pretty hard even if
it's very spread out might do a whole
lot of nothing except for maintain your
gains that's a theoretical critique that
we have to be open to there's no direct
date on it but it also very few people
have ever gotten super jacked doing the
training in this very rich person which
shouldn't say that it doesn't work but
it should be like you know it's not
gonna put all of my stock into expecting
these super gains maybe I'll try it out
and see what happens but my bigger
critique is from a practical perspective
men are eluded to it for good training
to activate very high threshold motor
units safely in some muscles requires
warming up sometimes extensively and if
you do training which essentially just
don't warm up
then every one of those sets of pull-ups
might just not be that great of a set
and then you have to do much more
overall volume you get the same effect
and that tends to beat up your joint so
on and so forth
and if you stay ok about a warm up then
you're doing a whole fuck load of
working out throughout the day warming
up that one set and then warming up and
then once that they've been warmed up
you might as well do a few sets and give
a good response and give some time for
recovery so if you do forearm training
calf training bicep training I think
that kind of like intersperse method is
totally fine and very practical and
probably very effective short of the
theoretical constraints but I think if
you're in a position where if you're
doing the next question is pretty fun
this is the next one right here right
there from Dell do you know or whatever
if you're doing something like quads
something like back something like chest
or our show like overhead pressing I
think that you're gonna run into a
problem where you have to warm up anyway
so you might as well do some work we
have set all the ones below already
alright interesting how does a Bayesian
like you and the scientists like Mike
view spirituality and religion so as a
Bayesian the answer to religion is
because there's no good data to support
the belief that there is a certain diet
E or whatever you don't believe it that
is the Bayesian answer to the question
agreed spirituality spirituality is real
you know how you feel connected to other
people and connected to the world on how
you drive your own meaning as a function
of brain structure all primates have it
and humans have it pretty extensively
and it requires a lot of exploration and
there's a lot of sort of coming to grips
with reality and thinking things through
and learning how to cooperate with
yourself and others and I think there's
some very beautiful discoveries there
and a community aspect can help a lot
and a lot of thinking and feeling your
way through can help so steer
spirituality is real I think most people
should have some kind of connectedness
some kind of general grand meeting an
openness to being inspired but I think
religion is view sort of what's the
least politically incorrect thing I can
say it's almost certainly false on every
level
all right next question or incorporating
very long like de+ fasts on rest days
for fat burning with almost no movements
is that risky for fat loss or is that
good that way to lose fats basically
alternate day fasting completes fasting
is that good for fat loss is the
question is it risky for muscle yeah you
can go first so let's see it's probably
not super risky for muscle loss but if
you want maximum muscle retention I
would not eat for a whole day or a day
and a half in addition to that physical
activity is really great way to boost
fat burning and if you have very very
low physical activity that's probably
not the best way to do things what I
would say is if you have to have low
physical activity like you mentioned in
your question an office work or
something like that eating less eating
very little carbohydrate or not so much
fat but still keeping the amino acids
coming into regular protein feedings is
probably much better sort of middle
ground versus just eating nothing at all
so I think like if you have like just to
keep it super simple example 3 casein
shakes throughout the day of like each
one of 80 grams of protein that's going
to provide a very awesome anti catabolic
effect and it's gonna cost you very
little fat burning because it's just not
enough calories to do dick on that side
and you have a really great day of
minimal activity which you have to do
because you're in office would you still
burn plenty of fat I would prefer that
much more than I would prefer completely
getting away from eating altogether
because then yeah you will lose some
muscle and overtime that probably will
add up in an addition that you mentioned
is that a good way of getting amazing
productivity I never understand people
that say never understand I have a hard
time understanding people that say like
the productivity is boosted when they
don't eat eating gives you energy and it
makes your brain work better so if you
eat you're more prepared to do all the
daily tasks so yes eating enormous
needles of tons of carbohydrate makes
you sleepy but eating a good diet it's
promotes energy and thought look if
someone was like hey Mike like here work
on this really meaningful highly
intellectual work do you want to be fed
today or not of course my fucking be fed
and I'm flirting to be starving and
trying to make sense of some shit so I
don't think that the eat that fasting
for an entire day is productive I think
fasting for several hours in the morning
can keep you nice and sharp especially
caffeine but I think you know right
around launching and I have to want to
eat something if you want to stay
intellectually productive yeah I think
in general I'm a I can I'm a pretty big
fan of incorporating protein sparing
modified fast days which basically what
Mike said you add the protein and
essential nutrients
to fuel overall health and worn off
muscle loss because a lot of people
don't realize that if you don't eat at
all and you add protein you'll actually
lose more fat generally because what the
protein does it's up control your
requirements which is at least one point
six gram per kilogram per day for most
people that protein is used for protein
synthesis it's preferentially used for a
by the body it won't be used as energy
it won't be oxidized and it won't be
stored as fat so it's basically free
calories in that sense not only that but
that protein synthesis and those
metabolic processes that the protein
consumption feeds those increase energy
expenditure so you end up with a higher
total energy expenditure and no
additional substrate used for either
energy usage or fat gain so you actually
end up losing more fat if you only eat
protein versus if you eat nothing at all
on top of that you wore off muscle loss
and potentially even get it so it's best
for you a win-win on every single front
yeah and that's my real my biggest gripe
against fasting is that any of the
technical stuff for feeding windows and
fractions of feda creates and stuff like
that my biggest gripe is like I
understand you're trying to lower
calories that's the biggest benefit of
fasting why are you getting rid of the
protein feedings there's no good reason
to do that
that I've been convinced by people say
like well even having just protein
throws off your fast and like yes it's
not fasting is not magical is nothing
magical happening what about at otha ji
you get it all that bullshit of like oh
man fasting promotes longevity what
about Safa ji and all the stuff which is
all dog shit anyway so that's the deal
in a protein folks this was the last
question so that's actually a good point
to end it on with many of these things
fasting keto diets paleo diets the goal
is not to eat paleo the goal is not to
be in ketosis the goal is not to fast
the goal is to lose fat or be healthier
or whatever and those things are the
means to that end
you always have to realize what you're
doing is it contributing to your end or
is it just contributing to some
arbitrary in-between pain that you are
using as the means to that end
oh all right that covers all the
questions that we didn't get to in our
previous Q&A sessions we may be able to
do
more Q&A session while I'm here in
Philadelphia next week luck guaranteed
and otherwise you can still ask
questions on both your social media
channels and we'll help you answer them
boom see you guys next time
you