[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Anon
periodization and I want you to stop
lowbar squatting what but the low bar
it's my friend at one time in summer
camp when all the other kids made fun of
me I had to sit by myself lowbar came
over and uh hugged me and sat next to me
and lar was like hey man I know what
you're going through I don't even want
to say anything I'm just here with you
no matter what and I was like damn lar
just you know what I'm saying and he's
like you don't even have to say it bro
but then later I show up I watch this Dr
Mike video and he's like hey stop lowbar
squatting and low Bar's like hey bro did
you see that video weird right and
you're like yeah yeah totally he's like
you're not going to stop squatting with
me right and you're
like yeah he like listen I'm breaking up
I'm going through a tunnel
click watch more Dr Mike videos let's
see what the fuck I have to say stop low
bar squatting first they're upsides to
lowbar squatting there are good things
about it number one because lowbar
reduces the length of the lever arm away
from your center of gravity by pushing
the putting the weight lower on your
shoulders down close to your traps then
across the rear delt is the technical
term what ends up happening is in result
you can lift more weight you can lift
more external load which is makes it
perfect for sport-like powerlifting
where the only thing you're measuring on
is your ability to lift external load
then low bar is awesome so if you just
want to lift a shitload of weight in the
gym or if you're trying to compete or at
least trained for powerlifting lowbar
absolutely is the way to go that being
said lowbar has some
downsides especially when viewed from
the perspective of people just trying to
get big legs and just trying to get
fucking strong I assume that covers
roughly 90% of you to the other 10% I
say hello we'll have a diet video out
shortly you don't have to keep watching
this bullshit here you
go low bar downsides first the quads are
targeted relatively Less in an absolute
sense you can get just as good of a quad
workout from low bar squats as you can
high bar squats but you'll get that same
good workout with 50 more pounds on your
fucking back and much more involvement
of the muscles of your posterior chain
hamstrings glutes lower and midback
you're paying a bigger cost for the same
stimulus that's what I mean by Target
the quads less to the end of the
stimulus next point the fatigue that you
are getting is higher in axial fatigue
axial fatigue is the fatigue generated
by squishing your spinal cord when
there's more weight and your spine is
asked to bend further forward it absorbs
more force and it tires you out in a
special ax fatigue loading way you can
try your axial fatigue chops by trying
to deadlift twice a week heavy for 3
weeks and at some point you're going to
try to pull on 135 lbs and it's going to
be like it's just not going to move and
you're going be oh my God this is the
heaviest fucking plate on a side I've
ever lifted how the fuck did this happen
that's actual fatigue it's separate from
other fatigue but it bleeds into stomach
another problem part of the same problem
not only is the axial fatigue higher
because of the bigger loads and more
having to lean forward and use the
muscles of the back in the low bar squat
you're involving more musculature you're
involving more glute activity you're
involving more hamstring activity and
more spinal erector activity in the low
bar squat than in the high bar squat
because those mus are now better
leverage to help you lift huge benefit
you get to use more muscle mass to help
you lift which means you lift more
weight hey success but the bad thing is
is that if we're only targeting the
muscles of the legs specifically like
the quads and the adductors when maybe
some of the glutes when we squat when we
do squatting motions if we're now doing
low bar motions the extra fatigue on the
back and the hamstrings at least and the
extra weight that you're using increases
your systemic overall fatigue nervous
system fatigue and cyto kind fatigue and
local muscle damage all that s sums up
to be more systemically fatiguing to put
it in a better way maybe more succinct
way lowbar squats beat your ass more and
for the same hypertrophic stimulus to
the quads potentially sometimes even a
little worse but at best the same you
have to wonder why we're paying this
fatigue cost but it doesn't end there
the local fatigue problems are summative
they're additional to these specifically
low bar squatting at some point as you
get more jacked has a high probability
not 100% of beating up your wrists okay
because holding in a weird wrist
position fucks your wrists up it doesn't
fuck them up in the sense that it causes
irreparable damage it just makes them
sore and that can interfere at least in
the few months that it takes your wrists
to get used to this with everything else
you do in the gym kind of
annoying elbows if you fixed your wrist
position sometimes you can do it at the
expense of your elbows your wrists are
good but now your elbows are taking the
strain elbows start to take it you
finally fix your elbows and now your
shoulders start to take it the wrist
elbow shoulder ER kind of triple Arc
there something's getting fucked it's
like a big ass security guard walks into
your fucking jail cell and there's three
of you in there prisoners of war and
something he's like one of you
motherfuckers getting an ass beating
who's it going to be and you both point
to the same person fuck you Frank get
over there take that baton someone's
getting it and it can be a bit of all
three it can be just the shoulders
because your wrists are put in a
position elbows put in a position to
save them but then it attacks at your
shoulders is this going to happen for
everyone no can you learn to overcome it
and over time get better at it and it's
not a problem yes but generally speaking
especially as you get bigger it becomes
more and more of a probability and the
possibility that it becomes a chronic
thing increases in uh in in probability
so what I'm saying here is like there's
a chance you get wrist pain at first
with low bar it goes away and it never
comes back big chance good chance
probably the more often thing but the
least common thing that does definitely
tends to happen enough for me to mention
it is your wrist start hurting and then
they h hurt worse and they hurt worse
and they hurt worse and they just always
hurt and you have to stop low bar
squatting all together or you just like
scream during sets from much your wrists
hurt I've had that happen with my elbows
the bigger you get the more squished in
you get the more probability Rises for
you just not being able to use uh low
bar squats because they're just going to
fuck you up like that's just what they
do and not only is the posterior chain
getting trained more and the quads
relatively less it's nice but even when
we try to train the posterior by itself
the quality of the workout the posterior
chain gets from low bar squatting is low
but the fatigue is substantial the
stimulus to fatigue ratio of the
posterior chain workor involved in
lowbar squatting sucks so not only does
it not train your posterior chain well
but it saps energy from it by causing
local and systemic fatigue and axial
fatigue all three actually local fatigue
to your muscles systemic fatigue to like
fucking this is lifting a lot of weight
and aial fatigue to muscle the spine or
or paraspinal muscles and the spine
nervous system sensors
themselves once you get all that now you
have to take that whole mess of high
fatigue and take it into your posterior
chain training if you're doing High bar
squats stiff leged deadlifts in the same
week are not a problem because the
overlapping muscles include the glutes
and that's kind of just it if you are
doing low bar squatting plus you're
doing stiff legged deadlifts or High by
good mornings or something that now
poisons the well for the posterior chain
work and you come in there with slightly
tired posterior chain muscles tired back
tired glutes tired hams the whole
Trifecta is fucking gone and not gone
but like degraded and so the quality of
your specific posterior chain workouts
degrades so let's just take a real quick
stock of what we got going on lowbar
squats degrade the average quality of
your quad and adductor work because they
demand a higher price and fatigue be put
on it and they also pepper in just
enough of the fatigue for the movements
that include posterior chain for the
part of the movement and the low bar
squat that taxs the posterior chain such
that it screws up to some marginal
extent your posterior chain as well it's
like um if you eat a bunch of delicious
food with a ton of garlic in it right
before going on a date not only does
that shit spoil your appetite for the
date food so she's like oh this is such
great pasta and you're sitting there
like yep sure is and she's like why
aren't you eating you're like I don't
know man I'm just a serious guy eating
for fucking humans bro and then she's
like okay that's weird fuck it let's
make out she tries to make out with you
you fucked yourself again because the
garlic breath and she's like oh my God
you taste like Mario and Luigi combined
into
one what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now it's a me a garlic
breath has there ever been a more
egregious ethnic stereotype than Mario
and Luigi what the fuck bro if I was a
full-blooded Italian which you know hey
Philly I sort of am I'd be furious how
dare you say that all of us are Pizza
mongering pipe
cleaners with profoundly amazing
mustaches that's pretty much all live
action one Scott the video guy just
asked if I've ever watched the
liveaction Super Mario Brothers pause if
you've never seen it and you were a
recreational marijuana user whatever
amount of pot you usually use double it
watch that shit when you're high bro
you're not going to be able to tell
fucking reality from fantasy it is one
of those movies you watch and you were
like what were they
thinking and also the way you saw the
Koopa Troopers in your head off of the
graphics when you played the game in the
80s and 90s they rendered them to be the
most disturbing versions of that that
you didn't think were POS
possible I would say more about it but
none of it politically
correct Godless bastards that ruined
Mario in any case
lastly if you were just trying to get
stronger for yourself or bigger for
yourself you're not competing in sport
lowbar may not be a wise choice for all
of the reasons that I've
listed if you like doing it if it
comports well with your goals and if it
doesn't hurt you in any way or really
the systemic stuff doesn't bother you a
ton you're a beginner and immediate that
can happen listen you have my full
blessing to train lowbar squads if you
just like them and they work for you
great but if you're thinking hey and
this is a question we get tons at RP
should I do lowbar and this is someone
who just wants to get generally strong
or generally big or even physique
athletes our answer is probably not for
the reasons given disagree get at me in
the comments agree and want more nerd
shit or disagree and want more nerd shit
we'll see you guys in the part of our
YouTube that is members only just a
small monthly fee and you get tons and
tons of bonus content and of course if
the bonus content is something you're
really into and you're really into
getting your Technique analyzed by a
group of experts including myself and a
private Forum the team full ROM Forum
link right below get in there folks
again it pains me to remind you of this
but seemingly you need to be reminded
the Lamborghini was invented and it has
not gotten to the level of technological
development yet where like an app it's
just free it costs an unbelievable
amount of money money I need to get to
my butler so they can buy me the
Lamborghinis so I can know that I have
Lamborghinis but be too rich to interact
with them cuz what kind of rich people
you know know shit about cars that's
some low class shit get me money so I
can buy buy Lambos it it frustrates me
endlessly don't need to remind you this
damn it see you guys next
time