that would always be my mindset I need
to go heavier cuz J is going heavier jar
is doing six plates so I need to do it
sure and I'm like oh I'm not as strong
as J if's not but he's talkinging about
hypetrophy so it's like if it takes less
weight or less load for you to get the
same work why stress I'm saying and try
to go heavier plus like your femur might
be longer than mine I might have I might
get a better growth stimulus from five
plates M you might get better from four
cuz your feur are a little bit longer
and you you're able to go a little
deeper or whatever it is
get better stim he made a lot of sense
when he said he like you should see it
as a benefit that you require less
stimulus to grow as opposed to another
person it's like a blessing yeah the
fact that I get so much work and deep
squatting for Cals because my Inc
Mobility is really bad so when I'm in
that deep KN that my calves are
stretched like F crazy so I don't even
got to train my calves gotta you can
never be too big though for sure unless
you got a weight cap yeah that's the
problem yes