here is why I think the seated behind
the back cable curl is the single best
bicep exercise you should be doing to
build muscle first off it's highly
stable by sitting down you're minimizing
any potential fatigue or instability
that could be stemming from a given
exercise secondly the biceps will be the
limiting factor there is simply not many
other muscle groups that are responsible
for elbow flexion that could give out
before the biceps do importantly this
exercise is super stretch friendly one
important finding in exercise science
over the past 10 years or so is that the
lengthened position or the stretch
position of an exercise is very
important we want to stretch a muscle
group and we want to expose it to plenty
of tension in that position by having
your arm behind you in the behind the
back cable curl and by setting up the
cable at hand height at the bottom of
each rep we're able to both lengthen the
long head as much as possible and expose
it to maximum tension in that lengthened
position so to build bigger biceps give
these two exercises a shot and let me
know what you think