hey folks it's me Dr Mike Israel for
Renaissance periodization and today we
are talking about hypertrophy myths and
this myth is active ROM active range of
motion people talk about it all the time
we're going to talk about what it is
why it could be a good thing and could
make some good points why it's not so
great and pretty bad and pretty mythical
and then real talk to wrap it all up at
the end so
the act of raw myth is from people
saying something like the following
don't go down that low on the leg press
your quads aren't active anymore it's
just passive range of motion
anything over this height of upright
rows or lateral raises all traps it's
not side delts anymore
uh the lats are not active you know past
the Torso nor they active close to the
top of the stretch so don't go in either
one just do the this stuff right here
and keep it to that range because that's
the active range
and more generally it's this idea that
you can take muscles naturally through
their natural motions and the limbs
through distinct ranges in which they
are so inactive or in such precarious
positions that it's not worth going to
that range of motion and I'll tell you
right now this myth does have some good
points plenty of good points but not as
many good points as most people think
which is why it's a myth it's a marginal
myth like almost all myths except for
like I don't know the existence of
ghosts and Angels shit which
I don't know maybe angels are real
aren't angels all around us in a certain
sense as people and often dogs do all
dogs really go to heaven that's that's
gotta be like fucking bullshit right you
tell me Cujo went to fucking heaven
after eating all those fucking kids
bullshit
all right you get to heaven and cujo's
the first dog you see he's like God
you're in hell
here is the good point that active ROM
Advocates make now they really make it
this way because usually they don't make
very good points but some of them do and
here are the good points
if the target muscle for an exercise
let's say the pecs or the lats or
whatever you're targeting through an
exercise a press or a pull
is
no longer generating almost any force or
a very tiny Force relative to what it is
capable of and I mean internally
generating not externally not you can
lift a ton of weight here but not a lot
of weight here I mean internally the
muscles barely Contracting
if it is an especially injurious
position one of which is like yeah you
can get to that range of motion but
you'll fuck your shit up like a
completely rounded lower back at the
bottom of an ultra heavy squat or
deficit deadlift
if the muscle is no longer the target of
the stimulus so for example if you have
a completely straight arm
fly with your packs at some point your
biceps are really doing all the work and
getting all the stretch and your pecs
aren't so it's not really a PEC fly
anymore it's a bicep fly which actually
not a terribly ineffective thing for
biceps but not what we want or the
muscle is no longer the limiting factor
of the movement so again the Flies are a
great example we're down super super low
your pecs are not the limiting factor
your biceps are limiting factor and if
they're not strong enough the movement
doesn't go anywhere it doesn't even get
high enough enough for your pecs to
catch enough leverage to start doing
this
if that's the case
then putting the muscle in that position
and training regularly is perhaps unwise
and you should constrict your ROM such
that your training avoids the above
right so if down here in flies your
shoulders hurt like shit it's all biceps
and Dick else is happening uh
maybe don't do that maybe bend your arms
a little bit and go just this low not
super crazy deep and maybe good things
will happen absolutely true
just talked about the pack flies example
so we're good there all right some good
points
however
the bad stuff and where this goes a bit
too far and turns into a myth
the muscle doesn't have to be its most
active to get a great stimulus
the biceps show the best EMG activity in
the middle range
but we know that stretch under load from
director experimentation grows muscles
probably most muscles more
so
no the biceps are not as active as
measured by EMG in a deep stretch
position on incline girl for example but
they still get a great stimulus arguably
an even better stimulus down there than
they get over here
so that act of ROM is already something
that passive tension generated by
muscles in their Ultra structures do
contribute to hypertrophy and active
versus passive is not dichotomous it is
a spectrum muscles are more or less
active more or less passive in their
Force generating and force handling and
a muscle that is producing less active
Force but more passive force can still
be very very hypertrophically
stimulating so okay
not All or Nothing thing so for muscle
is less active at some point in the
range of motion that doesn't mean it's a
bad range of motion it could be equally
or even more hypertrophic interestingly
enough passive uh passive Force
generation and the hypertrophy that's
mediated could actually require you less
physical or emotional effort and thus
could actually have lower nervous system
fatigue so you're getting hypertrophy
without trying all that heart I mean
next and this is a huge one muscles many
muscles all the ones studied so far as
far as I know seem to get their best
hypertrophic yields at stretched
positions stretch under load is a real
hell of a combination to illicit muscle
growth
we know from lots of research that for a
few reasons which I describe in another
video about the limits of EMG testing
and that video is already published you
can Google it
you don't get EMG which is muscle
activation as measured by uh electrical
activity with all the leads and all that
stuff you don't get very high EMG
signals out of a stretch position for a
variety of reasons but you get even
better hypertrophy from that position
so if we look at studies for example
they've done at least one study where
people are due they're doing pullovers
and at some 120 or some shit degrees and
further this way the EMG activity drops
off and people have interpreted that
study to say that it's bad to go beyond
that range of motion it's beyond its
active range bullshit that's where it
gets a ton of stretch and probably even
the most growth for the last occurs from
here to here or at least a very robust
amount of growth
so that's a thing
and
other muscles can become important in
those extreme ranges of motion
but they're still not limiting like
there is a way in which for example
gee whiz at the very bottom of your leg
press your glutes can become important
contributors but your quads even though
they're Ultra stretched are still the
limiting factor so even though other
muscles start to show very high
activities that doesn't mean it becomes
a glute exercise it becomes more of a
good exercise than it was but is even
more and more of a quad exercise than it
was because the quads are getting
stretched like crazy and there's a lot
of hypertrophy there
in addition to that
is this just just I don't understand how
the fuck people come to this conclusion
but people seem to think that every
exercise needs to map one to one to a
muscle
it turns out that it's okay for a single
exercise
to additionally hypertrophy other
muscles that are not the single Target
muscle
so you know people will say in rows or
something don't pull the elbow behind
the back because the lats lose leverage
there and that's true
but how is it that you are able to bring
the elbow behind the back it sure as
hell isn't Magic other muscles must do
it muscles like the rhomboids muscles
like perhaps the tears major muscles
like the rear delts
unless you are doing one exercise for
your lats
another exercise for your rhomboids
another exercise for your middle traps
another exercise for your Tara's major
another exercise for Tears minor I can't
forget that shit another exercise for
adults and so on you have to have some
the two or three exercises you do for
back in a given session cover a bunch of
muscle groups so if we're saying well
don't reach past this because it uses
other muscles and don't reach past this
because it uses other muscles and it's
not lats
we have to train all the other muscles
too and doing a full range Motion in
most cases just fucking grows the shit
out of your whole back and rear adults
and everything it's all good stuff you
don't have to piss away time doing 50
redundant exercises to hit all the
muscle groups you can do like a few sets
of bat rows or machine rows a few sets
of an isolation exercise like one of
these and a few sets of pull-ups or pull
downs and then your whole fucking back
is toast are into rear delts too as
opposed to being Ultra Ultra specific
for no reason right
so that's the bad stuff now here's the
real talk
Ultimate Guide to what range of motion
you should be using is the stimulus to
fatigue ratio
does it
the exercise in that range of motion
gives you a ton of perceived tension in
that muscle
does it give you a burn at higher reps
in that muscle does it give you a pump
in that muscle after a few sets does it
give you soreness and disruption in that
muscle and weakness in that muscle after
a few sets and maybe a day later then on
the other hand does it hurt the joints
and connective tissues it doesn't just
completely exhaust your whole body or is
it pretty kind to them stimulus on that
top side fatigue on the bottom side
divide the two into each other and you
get the stimulus to fatigue ratios the
more you can get a big hit with tension
burn pump soreness Etc and the less
joint and connective tissue disruption
can impose and less systemic fatigue you
can impose the better so if you pick a
standardized range of motion
and you do it and it's got a really good
stimulus to fatigue ratio maybe you try
going a little deeper and it has an even
better stimulus to fatigue ratio for
example if you bench press with a
regular barbell and by definition stops
at your chest you may at some point have
access to either dumbbells or even
better a cambered bar that has a big
sort of open middle space and you can
get to below your chest for a really
nasty stretch you will often notice that
the stimulus to fatigue ratio for deep
dumbbell presses
and for sure cambered bar presses is
better in many cases not all then
barbell presses just with a straight bar
and someone could say well what about
active ROM well what about my pecs for
two sets of this shit get blown into the
fucking Moon and my joints feel amazing
active passive fuck you ROM I don't give
a shit it fucking works we know it works
and it's empirical experience beats
theoretical supposition every fucking
day of the week you can tell me the shit
doesn't work how the fuck do I get
massive soreness in a crazy pump that
shit is not by accident clearly
something's going on in my muscles right
so you start out with a certain
standardized range of motion
my ankle was itchy
and
you play around with a bit more ROM and
a bit less ROM you see which one
produces the best stimulus to fatigue
ratio for you it'll take you a while to
figure that out and then you do the
thing that makes the best sfr sometimes
that means if you row you'll stop here
because you go yeah when I go back here
and just nothing happens sometimes it
means you'll roll away and you'll feel
all that shit in the back do all the
really good stuff get sore get pumped
tension burn and you're like oh man I'm
glad I'm doing this whole super full
range of motion thing
and don't forget
tension under stretch is important and
that does not come through on EMG
studies
so if you're saying well but muscle
activation was shown to be lower on this
and that that's only part of the picture
and it's a very shitty very small part
if you guys really want to read some fun
articles about the limits vmg Google EMG
Andrew vygotsky spelled phonetically v i
g o t s whatever ski motherfucker I
don't know how to spell that shit
he knows how to spell his name and
that's what's important and Google knows
even better so EMG is very very limited
it is a tool but is a very very limited
tool and so don't just Google EMG
studies and be like Oh clearly this is
the only thing an active romsa thing
that's not quite the case especially
considering stretch under load is super
powerful mediator of hypertrophy and it
doesn't show up much on EMG so it looks
like there's almost no muscle activity
but it turns out that's where the most
of the growth happens or at least a lot
of it
next thing is many exercises something
to remember Target multiple muscles and
higher range of motion usually does that
most of the time when people say oh well
if you do lateral raises and you stop
here it's all delts it's not mostly
delts but if you go up here it's no
doubts in all traps it's not it's a lot
of traps but still a bunch of delts
my question to that always is like
motherfucker there's some some wrong
with your traps they're too big for you
or do you want to belabor having to do
extra shrug training in addition to your
laterals if you do super full on
laterals like stopping here is nothing
wrong with but if you do super full
round laterals and go all the way
assuming your shoulders can take it
which most of the time they can if
you're using good technique you're going
to get an amazing just as good if not
better side dealt stimulus but you also
get a free trap stimulus I should put
that in an unmarked van white van with
no windows free trap stimulus kids come
in and well you guys know how that they
never leave the only place to go is the
side of a milk carton
that's where kidnapped children go I
believe in any case
last thing I'll say
do not
at least casually replace your perceived
stimulus to fatigue ratio on an exercise
with a first pass biomechanical analysis
which is the only kind you'll get
following people on Tick Tock and
Instagram when they call themselves by
mechanists but have no degrees in the
field
High lasers
if some kind of range of motion really
fucks up your triceps tension sort of
spur the whole thing but someone comes
up and they're like technically like
you just Flex shit at them and they'll
fuck off
but on a serious note if something
really fucks you up it's great for your
joints and it really hits the muscle
active passive as you've noticed from
this talk there's a ton of nuance there
there's no guarantees and because
hypertrophy can be active or passive in
a stretch media to form if it really
hits you fucking hard and it keeps your
joints feeling good and the rest of you
feeling great somebody tells you you're
going too deep because of some kind of
passive Act of ROM bullshit just be like
listen that's nice but I'll need some
more compelling evidence to tell me that
what seems to be working best for me in
the gym is actually not good for reasons
that even most biomechanists disagree
with in any case I got pretty feisty
like subscribe join our member section
if you want real nerd shit and uh
just be a good person just go out there
and do good for this world Jesus plant a
tree or something get off YouTube for a
bit and but then come back on and watch
our videos see you guys next time