how long should you rest for between
sets to maximize hypertrophy here's a
quick answer at least 2 minutes between
sets but maybe as long as you need in
order to roughly maintain Performance
Set to set previous meth analyses have
consistently shown that 2 minutes of
rest between sets does beat 1 minute of
rest between sets for hypertrophy when
the same number of sets is performed but
that doesn't mean you should just rest 2
minutes between every set in fact some
data suggests that the influence of rest
times on hypertrophy is mediated through
the impact of rest times on performance
so if you're not resting for long enough
between two sets and the performance on
that next set takes a big hit there's a
chance that that set became less
effective for muscle growth and so as a
general rule of thumb rest for at least
2 minutes between sets but rest for long
enough to get a solid performance on the
next set generally if you only see a
drop off of one or a few reps on the
next set it's a good sign you've rested
for long enough if you don't like
resting for a long time between sets
don't worry although the potency of each
set decreases as rest time decreases you
can make up for this by simply doing
more sets