i forgot about that message because it's
been over a month it feels like since
we've done one of these welcome back
it's the q and a that usually happens
bi-weekly but we had a little bit of a
holiday break dr mike dr james somebody
made a joke on i was combing through the
questions and they called you uh dr mike
the white doing a little gandalf the
greg and off the white reference and
tying in your instagram so there was
like levels of memes on that one but i
thought it was really good so i'm gonna
call you for today dr mike the white he
has returned
at the turn of the tide i don't remember
fighting the balrog or whatever for like
an eternity on the way down that fucking
volcano or whatever the hell well did i
get any of that instagram that ballrock
was instagram and you've come back
to save everyone
but now you're like more pristine
i'm shocked my kids retell rp doctor
mike is dead he's dad
so kudos to whoever made that joke i
forgot who you were but i thought it was
very funny
all right james how are you feeling sir
i'm good it's uh it's been like snow
madness out here it's been in a
perpetual state of plowing and shoveling
and de-icing and uh yeah i'm good but
it's just been a little crazy with the
weather we were in like a mega storm
like right when everybody left from the
holiday we got blasted so
doing okay though
all right all right that's the ups and
downs of living in montana yeah yeah no
we got like like several feet of snow
i'm actually i'm looking at it right now
and it's like even just taking the dogs
out it's a pain in the ass because it's
like going up to my knee and hip yeah
take them out yeah
all right shall we yes
we have many questions to get what
wait what
this just changed wait a minute
i want to share
this isn't the screen that i want to
share oh i guess it's this screen there
we go
zoom has updated and i'm unfamiliar with
the new way okay
good to go sharing or it's sharing your
whole background
is it really it's sharing just your
desktop background with nothing else on
it what this isn't the share that i want
ian rushton made that photograph
hmm
dude let's see your porn stash
no
and i don't mean your mustache i mean
your collection
i
okay
let's see
share screen
i just want one screen i don't want to
share the whole i have like a i think
it's reading the two monitors and it's
using the other monitor
god i feel like such a boomer on this
episode
how about advanced sharing option
you piece of crap all right mike i'm
just gonna can i just make you the host
and you do it
um
hmm yeah give me a sec or you should be
able to do it anyway but yeah
how does it do
why is it doing it it's never done that
before
well we'll see if it does it for me or
not uh
okay dr mike and james answer your
questions
i hope um
when milo does the uh time stamps it's
like you know the first three minutes is
boomers encounter technical difficulty
or actually i think i know what to do
here let me just try this instead
all right i i'm ready to go if you had
boomers in technical difficulty how's
that
yo it worked i just moved the window
over to the other screen
forgive me now i'm going to be looking
at both directions for the rest of the
episode today
all right first up is flabio who is
flavio
flabio asks can you talk about the
health trade-offs if any of natural
bodybuilding i assume he was yelling
when he asked that
uh i think we can all agree that there
are at least some negative side effects
of ped abuse but what about aggressively
pursuing genetic equipment
with only hard ass training but ton of
protein and a few legal supplements like
creatine and beta alanine so not really
naturalism just uh just legal
um thanks love the chat i love you back
flabio so i would say that anytime you
gain
more weight than is the average weight
in which your
bone structure and height lives the
longest you are trading off long-term
health um
and those weights are relatively small
so i would say that
uh you know if you're like five foot
nine okay you should be weighing like
somewhere between you know oh 140 to 160
really and then anything north of 160
after that is a really tiny tiny
difference up until you get to about 180
to 190. once you cross to about 200 at
five nine relatively lean mind you
there's a little bit more stress for all
your organ systems to carry that much
weight around a little stress for free
joints the general amount of metabolism
you're engaging in is higher because you
weigh more you eat more food you're more
physically active to move your body
around
and uh it seems that many biological
systems specifically ones of sexually
reproducing organisms have a bit of like
uh your metabolism only has so much
string to run through until it runs
through it and sort of unravels so if
you stay
relatively low activity and very small
you eat very healthy you can live a long
time this is essentially the same amount
of metabolism if you get bigger and um
you engage in lots and lots of physical
activity you run your metabolism faster
and you generally live less long because
you have the same amount of metabolism
to run uh until it sort of unwound and
essentially like you know accumulated
too many errors and all those other
problems so i would say anytime you're
elevating your body weight uh
significantly above what is average by
the way when it was average um with the
highest life expectancy you can look up
online anytime you want just look up
insurance tables and there they are and
of course there's a big range about that
i would say anything minus or plus 20
pounds in almost every height is kind of
irrelevant you're really not changing
the markers much but if you know you're
supposed to be 150 pounds and you
naturally get to 190 which means you've
mass gained up to 230 or something uh at
your heaviest then yeah you'll be paying
a little bit of a price
um
not a very yet advanced way to pay also
of course you know if you're getting
bigger naturally or not you need to take
care of your blood pressure monitor it
medicate if necessary because that stuff
will kill you whether or not you're on
pd's
james anything to add then yeah that was
really good i would just also add like
um psychological health can be a thing
for people using peds right so some of
you might have experienced this some of
you are maybe unaware um i don't want to
use the term roid range because i think
that's gets
it's a mischaracterization of what is
happening but for a lot of people when
they start using various peds they start
suffering from all sorts of stuff it
might be anxiety it could be more
aggression it could be a cacophony of
other emotions or negative emotions that
start coming out that they don't really
know how to deal with that well so i
think
on a person-to-person basis it's not
really something you can know some
people can take the kitchen sink of
drugs and have very little psychological
side effects some other people can take
very little and have like profound
psychological consequences so
in addition to the health trade-offs
that you're making you have to kind of
know whether or not you are a good
psychological fit for that type of
activity some people just aren't so
and that will of course spill over into
your physical health if you're not doing
so well
that effect the pds were just
physiological
um
all right
next up is henrik anderson
all right i have a complicated question
does food and or stimulants just simply
mask fatigue or does it actually
decrease how much fatigue you're
accumulating for example taking a
pre-workout before workout makes me less
systemically fatigued when i'm done i'm
still amped up to some extent however if
i don't take anything i end up more
sluggish and tired afterwards it's
option two no pre-workout more fatiguing
fasted cardio is more fatiguing than fat
cardio
even though i'm doing the same amount of
total work
i'm more systemically taxed after a
fasted cardio session so that means i'm
actually accumulating more fatigue doing
faster cardio i'm truly grateful for
this webinar thank you so much for the
knowledge mike and james so the way
you're phrasing this is actually very
good i'm glad you gave the examples
because i would have answered a little
differently had you not
stimulants really only just mask fatigue
now approximately they reduce fatigue um
in the sense that they they can buttress
your performance and allow you to do
things you wouldn't be able to do but
the underlying causes of fatigue which
is to say
uh cytokine disruptions uh you know uh
nervous system lack of healing hormonal
things joint connective tissue stress et
cetera they're still there as much as
they ever were and when you take
stimulants you can actually create even
more of them so while you're still amped
up to some extent when you're done
that's just because there's still
stimulants in your bloodstream when they
go
that evening you're going to get way
more fatigue having plowed through a
hard workout than if you didn't take
anything and had a worse workout because
the worst workout at least doesn't
fatigue you as much
same idea in your example now generally
speaking has to be said from a
conceptual perspective
in most cases food actually does reduce
fatigue
it does but in your case
um
the fasted cardio versus fed cardio the
preponderance of it is that you're
probably not going to accumulate much
more fatigue after faster than fat
cardio but you will feel more of the
fatigue because of the nutrient amounts
in your blood are just way lower you do
fasted cardio your blood sugar is low
and you're going to feel like shit if
you do fed cardio then your blood sugar
stays up usually much higher because the
food is still coming in and as it's
being used for cardio it's still coming
in from the gi tract so
after you know a faster cardio session
or after i'm sorry a fed cardio session
a lot of times if you eat and then do
cardio over the next one to two hours
there's still tons of
nutrients leaking out of each eye track
to be absorbed from your jack jack into
your circulation
that hasn't even been you know processed
yet by your body i mean it's been
digested and presented to you so it's
kind of like oh i feel less fatigued
after fast after fed cardio well there's
a reason for that there's food still
coming in like you don't actually know
how fatigued you are until there's not
food coming in and then you equalize the
two conditions so under the hood fasted
cardio probably doesn't fatigue you much
more if any more than fat cardio but you
feel better
just because of the food now the
stimulant side the stimulant workout
actually fatigues you more
but makes you temporarily feel better
and i'll parlay to james now
so he can say his piece and at least i
think james can extrapolate um not the
dangers but the be carefulness of using
stims
and just being like oh i can do anything
uh yes i'm paying the cost to be the
boss later james it's this is a great uh
timing on this question because my
friend steve who is relatively new to
you know
evidence-based training has discovered
pre-workout oh no
yes and it's not going so well so oh no
what i like to remind people is like uh
pre-workout is essentially like meth
right and like so like a little bit of
meth can help you do your homework and
clean the house but
you can have a great time but a lot of
bit of meth and you end up in jail right
so we want to avoid jail um yeah so this
when you take pre-workout or just
stimulants in general
as mike already explained very well it's
really just kind of covering up the
fatigue that you already have and it
might allow you to kind of push through
some boundaries that you would otherwise
not be able to the problem is that you
generally will pay the price later and
some people tolerate this better than
others so what's really funny with my
friend steve is he just he did the
classic like
took two scoops against my
recommendation i said don't take the two
scoops
and he had a great workout and then a
severe crash and burn and gi distress
and the whole
anybody who's who's taken enough
pre-workout knows exactly what i'm
talking about um so some people kind of
tolerate that better than others so if
you are someone
who is really prone to like a caffeine
crash or a stimulant crash you have to
kind of taper how much pre-workout
you're using um so you might find that
like you might lean a little bit more
heavily on pre-workout on a cut phase
where you're really just not feeling
energetic and you have to kind of really
grind through some of those workouts but
like on a mass phase or a maintenance
phase you might actually just dial it
down or maybe not use those at all maybe
switch to something just like coffee or
maybe some tea something along those
lines but yeah everybody's a little bit
different in how well they can um clear
out how much caffeine is in their system
how well they tolerate the after effects
some people will get like the massive
sleep pressure as the adp starts
building up like in their brain and so
afterwards they'll feel like that
enormous like smash crash i'm ready to
die feeling so everybody's a little bit
different you kind of have to know your
limits on that um and the same kind of
goes with the fasted cardio i hate using
the individual difference kind of easy
out some people just tolerate it better
like if you're somebody who can wake up
first thing in the morning and bang out
cardio and it doesn't really affect you
it just it fits in your schedule well
that's great other people
trying to do the fasted cardio makes
them feel like total shit so it's kind
of um it's not necessarily a right or
wrong thing and henrik you already kind
of alluded to like if you're doing the
same amount of work right the amount of
fatigue you get from the exercise is
basically the same under all conditions
it's more in how you tolerate those
conditions in which you're doing that
exercise so if you're somebody who needs
that uh to have some food in your
stomach before you exercise so you don't
feel like ass the rest of the day that's
fine if you can wake up first thing in
the morning hit your cardio right away
and it doesn't affect you at all that's
fine too and you can just roll with it
so i hate using the individual
difference kind of easy out just like we
use with the sfr very often but it is
true in both of these scenarios so just
just kind of play with the id play
around with these things and see what
works for you
next up the anabolic italian amazing
name
hey i'm fucking growing here whoa do you
think tony soprano was very anabolic oh
for fat yeah
you know adipocyte anabolism is a thing
uh it's easy to do all your genetics are
really aligned for it so it's not no
training guides incoming um all right he
says hey docs is there a minimum
testosterone level for males
specifically that is needed for muscle
growth i know the amount of free
testosterone dictates how much that's
not entirely the case but i'll let some
other experts take that one on um
but is it possible to build muscle even
if the test levels are way below the
normal range given all the training and
nutrition variables are equated good
hypertrophic stimulus and caloric
surplus or sufficient protein and sleep
yeah so it's actually um
it's it's something it looks like i
would say like a hyperbolic curve okay
so it it's it's there's this exponential
region first and then it flattens out
into more of a straight line that keeps
going up eventually the straight line
gets asymptotic what do i mean by that
so if we're talking in nanograms per
deciliter i hope i got that unit right
you know somewhere between like 200 and
700 is where most adult males who are
healthy fall
and that's of testosterone
in the bloodstream and you know can you
build muscle at 150 nanograms per
deciliter yeah yeah you can
um
not as much as you would build at 200
plus
and
the difference did you figure out the uh
i do display thing okay super the
difference in muscle growth in the short
term between someone who has let's say
200 nanograms stress a liter versus some
of the 700 and these research studies
have been done pretty well in the short
term the difference is very small in the
long term the difference can be very
meaningful
but
uh you know so so there's not a huge
difference within that range and that
would kind of be one of these little
lines right here but below 200
especially below 150 especially below
100 there's a pretty steep drop off all
the way to zero testosterone in which
muscle growth is still very possible
females have approximately zero
testosterone in many cases they can
still build a lot of muscle
but it's going to be much harder so it's
less of a is there a minimum value and
more of a where is the borderline i'm
saying right around 200 nanograms per
deciliter if you're below that i would
get uh some medical intervention to see
if if anything can be done about raising
it and or if you're really having
trouble growing muscle and at low
testosterone values like that you should
have a competency of symptoms
not just muscle growth problems look i
have a muscle growth problem i can't get
to 260 at ten percent body fat it's
bullshit right i don't have a low
testosterone so then you have to have
some stuff going on you know do you feel
unenergized is there some mild
depression is there a sexual dysfunction
a good doctor will take care of all
those things for you and be like yeah it
looks like you might actually be
hypogonadal they take your test uh
sample is either 180 nanograms per
deciliter again it's below the normative
cutoff let's put you on trt and then
everything hypothetically gets better of
course
at 700 800 900 a thousand 5000 10 000 it
keeps going up in a straight-ish sloping
down line so that of course muscle
growth is way easier if you're you have
2 000 nanograms per deciliter or 5 000
like many steroid users do
uh and of course that's better but you
know it's it's even not not correct to
say that oh well below 5000 anywhere
below a thousand there's no muscle
growth bullshit all the nannies are
almost all the nannies are below a
thousand they grow tons of muscle it's
just when you get into that 200 less
range that that little that little bloop
of the going down close to much less
muscle growth goes and it also depends
on your your age and your the biggest
variable here guys actually is your
training age like if you are you know 35
years old you've been crushing it ever
since you were 15
and you have normal testosterone values
you may be done growing the
preponderance of your muscles even
though your test is normal and for you
to grow more muscle you may need double
or triple or quadruple the test you'd
have to take exogenously now the other
hand if you have very low test levels
100 nanograms per deciliter is a male
and you're a beginner and generally your
genetics are pretty good for sensitivity
testosterone myostatin modulation
all of a sudden you could be growing
heaps of muscle for years with low
testosterone and then if you get trt and
it bumps to two or three hundred oh my
god you're fucking superman so
it's one of these things where
uh anabolic italian i'm trying to answer
your question in such a way that will be
most helpful for you and other viewers
which is to say i'm trying to answer it
in a way that is like okay what is the
what is the recourse of choices you have
after i blab to you and you
intellectualize are you going to the
doctor to get tests are you using
steroids what's going on here like
that's the thing is like there's a and
i'll say this is very politely it's all
meant it's all in do fun there's a natty
obsession with test levels like
motherfucker are you so obsessed about
test levels don't be natty anymore just
inject the shit yo you have to pick your
own tesla that's like a fucking you know
like a wheel of fortune you just say
whatever you want so uh you know
anything above 200 nanograms per
deciliter roughly and that number can be
debated and it's by the way in in europe
you have a differentiation system
altogether um
anything above what's considered sort of
minimum reference male range is is great
and anything above that is better and
anything below that can lead to some
troubles in the kind of muscle growth
you're going to be getting uh james does
that make sense that last part i said or
the whole like
what is it what are we going to do about
this kind of problem yeah so that was
kind of my angle on this question was
like is this purely academic or is there
some definitely not right well it's like
okay so then what are we getting at so
at that point um granted i wouldn't mike
is in the know on that stuff more than i
am i have i would have to look up those
numbers uh it's just not something
floating around in my brain but what i
would say is that um
this is probably not something you need
to concern yourself with unless you have
been training for a long time let's say
like 10 years you've been using advanced
training methods and your gains have
substantially slowed down when you
otherwise feel like you should be making
gains and that's one of those times you
go see the doctor or you go to lab corn
get your testosterone injected and you
go oh maybe i am a little bit below the
normal range or you know whatever
but what i would say for most people
uh the limiting factor especially if
you're natty
is not like am i at this minimal
threshold of free testosterone it's that
usually your training methods suck i'm
not saying that yours do anabolic
italian but that's to my experience has
been the limiting factor for most people
where it's like well i can't grow any
muscle like well what's your training
program like well i do three sets of ten
and bench and then i move to triceps and
then i do three sets of ten on delts
it's like okay well you're not really
doing a whole lot of training have you
ever tried training a little bit more
and they're like what
trade more
what more than three sets and yes when
dr mike and i go yeah more than three
sets you can do more than three sets
there's nothing matching about that um
so that would be my angle it's like
usually it's like you would be training
hard for a long time and then you're not
making the progress that you would
otherwise expect to be making then you
would go see your doctor or do some
blood work and go from there
but make sure your training's in order
first it's really my point and your diet
while we're on the subject guide to you
all right dr
mcbungle nuts
nice nicely
uh
says i just finished watching your
latest video uh
15 rep my rep workout for gigantic delts
plus my reps explained no longer our
latest video we've been out for a little
while i've always performed my wraps
based off of your explanation under the
various muscle groups and i purchased a
guide central hub which states that for
a subsequent set you should only rest in
um long enough to get between five and
ten reps in this video you say you rest
long enough to get between three and
five reps why the different
recommendations is just a variation on
the theme there there is no it's like
asking um what's the best way to speak
english with a scottish accent or with
an alabama accent like it's just a
different there's no big deal the
scottish is the correct answer neither
neither one people either prefers
if you want to unders be understood
that's just uh american new york english
um
uh perhaps one is um preferable over the
other depending on circumstance
definitely you know sometimes your
muscles like you would have to spend 30
seconds resting in order to get another
set of five to ten you don't even feel a
sequestered burn anymore sometimes sets
of two to three is what gets it done
sometimes sets of two to three in a
certain exercise just feel like strength
training and you're not even
sequestering a burn with such a two to
three so it's really what we want with
my reps is this you gotta fucking gnarly
pump and burn and when the burn just
barely goes away you fucking torch it
again if
it if the when the burn goes away takes
30 seconds you rest 30 seconds
if when the burn goes away takes three
seconds your s3 if getting the burn to
torch up again takes five to ten reps
you take five to ten if getting the burn
to torch up again takes two to three
reps it's two to three so that's really
kind of what we want to do light the
fire and then relight relight relate
relate relight that that's really the
right answer uh let's see what else he
says
um
doesn't the three to five uh rap target
violate the first chalkbox in the four
factor checklist you've talked about
which is five plus reps yes uh for
conventional sets that's how rest time
is determined for conventional sets not
for all sets and in this case if you
do less than five reps per biorep mini
set
the question that you have to ask is
is everything else being checked off is
the muscle the limiting factor am i
getting nasty tension pump burn if
that's the case then you're good to go
could you rest longer yeah only if it
made those things better and if it
didn't then you could rest longer and do
sets of only five and above
and he says uh for example in your video
titled once you use intensity techniques
you talk about uh how nailing that
checklist is a requirement using
intensity techniques and you even
specifically say around the three and a
half minute mark that every single meyer
upset after the first set of let's say
10 to 20 has to be about five reps if
you stop dropping in your sets below
five reps they're not adequately
hypertrophic i would appreciate you
clearing this up for me i really
appreciate these q and a's the amazing
influence channel provides uh keep up
the good work things so so basically
essentially all of the advice we give on
the channel
is any thing we say almost anything this
is normally distributed about the thing
that we say and there's always
exceptions that are incrementally less
common so there are maya rep sets you
can do in which every drop set is eight
or ten reps which is way more than the
five ish and there are some cases which
you do two or three reps and it's
totally fine the real thing we want to
go back as down to the principles is the
muscle being sufficiently taxed in a
stimulatory way and is it coming at the
expense of a high degree of fatigue and
is there an in the moment in the
situation obviously better way to do
things if you're checking the stimulus
box you're not checking a big one the
fatigue box and there's not a clearly
better way to do this and you've tried a
few other ways you're like nah
resting long enough for adults to do
another five reps isn't as good as just
hitting a two or three and then resting
almost no time and hitting singles just
doesn't do anything with such two or
three really do seem to torch me the
most giving me the best stimulus the
least fatigue
then it seems to be the correct answer
now generally speaking about five reps
is a good cutoff but james and i could
have said about four reps and it would
have been almost true almost all the
time so these are just general general
ideas
and what we don't want people to do is
say well it's got to be above two reps
now if it's above two reps of all the
myop sets you could do in the universe
there's gonna be a lot of sets of two
and three which just don't really do
much of a thing so five is the general
rule but almost every rule we ever have
has a normally distributed boundary
layer about it which you can violate the
rule and still actually get the best
possible thing
that you can like in that situation
i want to make a stupid analogy just
because james is here and i haven't seen
him in a while and i want to get jokes
you know like
generally speaking if you want to jack
off like it's good to have some tissues
and some lube in a comfortable place
almost all the time but you know i'm
saying when james and i fly and we still
get in that airplane bathroom and do
what god says needs to be done and
without all the accoutrement of uh you
know what i'm saying all the fancy shit
and motherfuckers knocking on the door
like are you dead in there i'm like
i'm trying uh you know sometimes she's
just got to get done and
adjustment to the situation means that
you usually don't violate the principles
by a huge margin but if you have to edge
them a little bit edging it's another
important thing uh if you have to edge a
little bit to one side or the other to
make it work in the moment then it's
good to go
good question i actually can't stand in
the front cabin lavatories anymore
because they changed the the layouts now
like anyone who's above five foot yeah
eight or nine hundred years stands up
straight um yeah so that was really good
explanation so also just keep in mind dr
mcbungle nuts um you might actually have
some variation in which rep ranges kind
of hit the sweet spot for you even
within yourself in different muscle
groups so you might find that like doing
sets of like three for your biceps just
feels like a humongous waste of time
where you're just like heave hoeing this
huge weight up whereas something like
for hamstring curls or something like
that you might end up feeling a little
bit better because they're more fast
twitch you know something along those
lines so even within yourself different
muscle groups may respond better to
different rep ranges or kind of rest to
rep uh protocols that you're using for
my rep training
let me uh jump on that real quick james
because you bring up an excellent point
so
a lot of times
what we're doing with reps is we have a
more objective standardized way to
measure how much time the muscle is
producing tension
it's really illustrative here because in
the delt workout we were doing super rom
laterals
super rom laterals each rep takes maybe
double the time maybe they're awful
they're all like something like a leg
extension in which you're like
each rep just doesn't take that long or
like even a bent row a betrayal just
kind of like but then you're done
so
if we're talking about we were doing
sets of two to three uh reps there
then
it's totally fine because that's
actually the equivalent of like damn
near a set of eight in leg extensions if
we're counting reps but the times
produce generating tension
three reps of full rom laterals or super
arm laterals she wins that's a long time
using your delts and it will lead to
that um metabolite generation that we're
looking for with mild reps whereas if
you did three reps of leg extension you
could just be like i don't know
something happened i guess but i don't
feel anything yet
yeah yeah so don't um kind of what mike
was already saying about the the
normalized distribution like don't none
of this uni even with the volume
landmarks everything else right there's
there's always kind of a spectrum of
whenever we make recommendations you
have to kind of play with it and make it
your own
if you just say like dr mike said five
reps and you just go by that you you're
you'll probably be like 70 of the way
there but you're probably missing out on
your own individual variability right
across your you know just yourself who
is different from dr mike or different
from me and all the different muscles
within your body which may respond to
better or worse in different
circumstances so always make it your own
yeah
like a lot of that it goes to even more
basic recommendations so people say you
know sets of three to six in the
strength range and someone always raised
their hand said yes if they do sets of
seven and sets of two i won't get strong
and this of course you fucking get
stronger and for some people sets of two
and seven work even better than three to
six but if we say you know two to seven
we're just going to be encountering more
error because there's less people under
that curve where if we say 1 to 30 gets
you stronger any reps between 1 and 30
anything beyond 10 it's just not going
to get you much stronger a lot of people
are going to be upset even though i'm
sure there's one in a million people who
physically gets a bigger runner m
training for sets of 11 reps than for
sets of two that person's out there for
sure and they said well when i trained
with sets of 11 i got stronger what do
you say to me it's like well there's
this thing called normal distribution
you're right over here which is totally
cool but we still have to give the
average based on the recommended center
of the curve
if i can just belabor this a little bit
longer um i think that's kind of
yeah i think that's kind of the benefit
and curse of hypertrophy training
compared to like um strength training or
sport training in that there is kind of
a little bit more subjectivity in some
of this stuff where you kind of have to
just get a feel for what you're doing
you got to get a feel for sfr you have
to know when your muscle is ready to
recover whereas in kind of traditional
sports training or we'll just say
strength and power kind of training
it's more linear in the fact that like
if you're not increasing the weight or
the explosivity of the movement like
you're generally not making progress and
in that regard like you can program
these things a little bit more rigidly
where it's like okay i need to actually
like add weight on the bar or i need to
do x y or z whereas in hypertrophy
training you're way more flexible in
terms of like the intensities the
volumes the frequencies the exercises
you have this huge kind of bob ross
style canvas where you get to kind of do
a lot of stuff but you have to get a
feel for all of these things and figure
out what you need as an individual
whereas like i can take a group of rugby
players
and we can all like kumbaya and talk
about how individualistic we are but if
they're not getting stronger and more
explosive they're not getting better at
rugby per se you know so there's kind of
a commonality they tend to funnel in
very specific areas whereas in
hypertrophy training you have to like if
you're looking at mile reps like dr
mcbungle nuts like you can take this
idea of mile reps and then you have this
like kind of broad application that you
have to kind of just play around with
and get a feel for so i think that's
kind of the cool part and the hard part
whereas in traditional training it's
more kind of regimented and rigid and
there's clearer delineations for
whatever outcomes you want or in
hypertrophy training you have a lot of
variability that you can use you don't
have to use certain exercises you don't
have to train at certain intensities
but you have to kind of figure it out
for yourself
up next fake natty
fake natty i love that name
all right
fake nanny asks is there a way to
emphasize a lower part of the lats and
back training neuroscience tells us that
rowing towards hip slash lower abdomen
region hits the low lats as opposed to
towards the sternum area is there any
merit to it obviously changing
insertions is impossible without
surgical intervention so without proper
genetics we can forget about cobra lats
like lee haney or kygreen but can they
be improved outside of general last
temperature through this lagging area
the answer is probably
different regions of especially large
muscles grow differently depending on
the angles of pull
so
a lot of this can be you know generally
like you know the more vertical you are
uh the more you pull to your hips
probably engages your lower lats more
versus being uh lean back more pulling
more to your chest will engage the upper
and upper and upper lats until it
engages the rhomboids and tears major
entirely and very little lats and then
your traps when you're growing like this
um
so generally it's like an angles thing
it's like point the angle of the bar to
wherever you want the growth to occur
but you can
double down on confirming that by
thinking of two things one are my lats
lower lats feeling tired are my lower
lats getting sore after training and are
my lower lats getting a pump because you
can tell if your lower lats are getting
a pump versus uh your outer lats um and
upper lats that being said if you can't
and you say well i don't know what part
is it shut the fuck up and just get your
back bigger motherfucker because if
you're like i want lower lats but you
can't even tell where you're back you're
getting a pump the fuck up out of here
come back with a back and then we'll
talk about prioritizing teams yes 100
and just keep in mind too like there are
just anthropometrical differences like
some people you're just not going to see
that that lower lat area flare out and
they're you're primarily going to be
seeing that like kind of outer that big
like up in the armpits area and that's
just all you got that's just what you're
born with right there's not much you can
do so i think kind of the strategy here
um you don't do the pumping iron arnold
approach was like yes i'm a sculptor i
can i can train here i can train here i
can do this it's like yeah what's that
is right where it's like get that area
just as generally as large as you can
through sound training practices like
using good sfr movements for your lats
and then kind of once you've hit the
intermediate
what we'll call late intermediate stage
and
maybe you've stepped on stage a couple
times or maybe it's just personal
preference whatever but you can clearly
see like this is a lagging area and
either it's losing you competitions or
it's just not aesthetically pleasing to
you and you want to change it then you
can start playing around with movements
that really really start targeting
regionally specific areas within a
muscle group but until you get to that
point we're talking like training for 10
years or more at this point and getting
as big as you can
with with what you got i just don't
think it's a good use of your time
whereas like training for big lats will
make that whole region generally larger
even if it's not specifically hitting
the the most specific part of the lats
that you're trying to hit the whole
thing's going to get bigger and you can
just go from there so i would say focus
on getting big lats if you're 10 years
in and you're still lagging in some
areas then you can play around with
these kind of more specialized movements
but for kind of the beginner to
intermediate it's a it's a huge waste of
your time
uh games type in johann j-o-h-o-o-n
into the search bar
for your very european names in europe
everything is better
uh actually my wife is in europe right
now she's in the netherlands the kingdom
of the netherlands oh that's right i
forgot and yeah she's hanging out with
like ferry corston and all the djs just
kidding she's actually a team doctor for
team usa figure skating um you know what
i'm saying a fucking husband tries to
earn some cred become a top leader in
their industry and then this
motherfucking bitch has to come through
and try to take my swag from me oh you
work for team usa huh well you know what
whatever my wife's name is
i'm still here and i still have
self-esteem you can't put me down with
your accomplishments i'm a man
at least get the man a kit bag get him a
usa figure skating like kit like some
shoes some t-shirt a jacket or skates
yeah forget bodybuilding i'm
transferring to skating
[Laughter]
all right
there's a lot to say about that yes but
we won't say it we will answer john's
question instead he asks uh i have heard
that if you lose your muscle gains you
tend to rebuild them back three times
faster compared to building new muscle
does this principle also concern
strengthening chairs so the three times
it get really just so situationally
dependent that averages and
undergraduates have to be used and
they're all bullshit anyway we can just
be confident in saying that muscle
rebuilding is much faster than the
original building at least twice as fast
and in many cases way faster still
depending on the circumstances um does
this uh apply to strength gains
two two answers one yes and two even
more quickly because muscle you have to
physically regain the tissue strength is
a lot about neural rewiring and your
brain knows the shift it's like if you
used to speak pretty decent spanish in
high school and you go to a resort for a
week in mexico or like some shit in uh
south america after a week you're saying
shit you thought you forgot it only took
one week to get you as good as spanish
speaking as you ever were that's very
similar for strength you know if you
haven't deadlifted in years but you used
to deadlift four years three sessions
later you're going to be setting in like
oh fuck i know what a fucking deadlift
again and your shit's going to go 225
275 315 you'll be back to rep at 365 in
three weeks whereas your best ever maybe
405 for five you're like what the fuck
i'm 40 pounds away and just like three
weeks well yeah especially if you have
the muscle but that neural architecture
rewires ultra ultra fast james anything
uh on there yeah it's actually super
cool so i've done some research on this
for my side project and um what's really
interesting is like so with the strength
particularly the strength we'll just
kind of say like the motor skill portion
there's a lot of different things at
play here one of which is just like
learning uh certain things at critical
time periods in your life so you can
teach a kid to like snowboard when
they're six and then they're there can
snowboard forever they cannot snowboard
for 10 years and then they can just get
back on and keep snowboarding same thing
like the classic example is like riding
a bike like most people who rode bikes
when they were kids as adults even 20
years later after not having ride the
bike can probably get on and pedal
around a little bit maybe not the best
but they can still do it um the same
thing applies to motor skills more
broadly and what's really neat is that
once you've kind of especially like if
you're looking at some new skill that
you're trying to work on like whether
it's throwing a ball or a strength
related thing like a low bar squat or a
bench press
once that movement has ingrained into
what we would call like mo actual motor
learning so it's gone beyond kind of the
uh we'd like to call it the ram phase
and moved into the rom phase of your
brain where it really you don't you it
doesn't actually have to go up to your
higher brain centers to execute as much
anymore it actually starts to become
more automatic
uh those things almost never go away
which is pretty cool the problem is it
takes a long time for them to get there
but it's one of those things like once
it gets there it's it's it's largely
locked in long term so that being said
if you stop training bench press for
years on end you can probably jump back
into benching reasonably with benching
with reasonably good technique
immediately and the amount of weight
that you will be able to increase week
to week will be almost astonishing
because
all that stuff is just locked in there
which is pretty cool so yeah the the
strength and the motor skill component
comes back even faster than the muscle
pretty neat stuff
yeah very cool it comes back quick
um all right next up is
j-o-n john l guard with three a's or ten
a's in the middle j-o-n space and you
should see a
fitness with john arias areas
hi doc's recently been going through
your books
shot um spit and rp diet 2.0 i'm sure i
was like wait a minute
the scientific principles
we just call them in-house in rp we're
just like hypertrophy book volume yeah
anytime
anytime i uh read reddit which is
luckily rarely i think the way to get
into reddit is to like abbreviate
everything because there's abbreviations
for everything because a lot of these
guys spend so much time online they
don't have time for the shit but i feel
like like demonstrating higher value on
reddit it's just about as how many
fucking abbreviations can you use and
pretend to understand and they're like
wow this guy really knows his stuff tldr
no one can beat the military in the use
of acronyms so oh yeah sure
uh let's see
multiple times he's read these books
which has completely revolutionized
everything regarding my hypertrophy
training that's awesome thanks for
making amazing content my question is
how the hell does anyone go about
implementing everything the books
advocate it seems that there are things
to prioritize
you go try and revolutionize your
training right how did you revolutionize
your training
i'm just kidding uh it seems there are
things to prioritize over others and
that keeping it um ongoing process might
be a way to go absolutely though
implementing and putting everything
together takes dedication studying
continuous work how would you go about
it and how does one put it all together
most efficiently so it's actually a very
easy answer anytime you take anything
any kind of body of knowledge let's say
you decide to start learning economics
and you want to reason more accurately
about economic things
and
okay so so you do you read an economics
book i mean there's so much information
in one of those books which one which
information do you apply well you try as
you read the book and a lot of times
it's spelled out for you as it is in all
of our books what the really core most
important principles are
and then you pick maybe the most
important of the most important let's
say there were six ultra important
principles just take three specificity
overload fatigue management
write down if you're into writing shit
down two things you should be keeping an
eye on for each principle that's six
total things to keep an eye on your
program like overload increase weights
week to week make sure i'm going close
to fail that's it there's two things and
just do them until the shit is obvious
and then you feel like you're not really
training in an intellectual enlightened
way because you're like duh all this
stuff makes sense you reread the book
and then you pick out a few more
peripheral things not central core
principles start threading them in
and then until they get to be like
pretty much reflexive and then if you
want to get even more detailed reread
the book again or some principles you're
like oh this is too complex but i'm
going to write it down now i'm going to
hit it later start threading in the more
of the complexities later on that's how
i would do it james is there another way
to learn i'm just not familiar with that
yeah no i mean we're going to say the
same thing essentially here and
essentially my answer is kind of
periodizing all the little components
that you want to work on until you're
getting to the behavior changes that you
want so one of the things that we like
to hammer home with our athletes is that
you cannot train to be good at
everything all the time
it's just impossible it's a poor use of
your resources because you just end up
getting better at nothing so like mike
said sometimes it's good just to focus
on a couple things like certainly john
like you you probably have a pretty good
grasp on something like you you probably
are going to the gym regularly you
probably have a pretty good idea of how
to like train your chest or your legs or
this and that so take what you know and
then start modifying a couple things at
a time and just see where it takes you
like you don't have to get too crazy
with things like
myo reps and intensification techniques
and changing rirs and stuff like a
simple thing is like okay what's your
normal routine look like can you
modulate something like volume right
that's the easy one that we talk about
all the time like
why don't you try to find your mrv for
two muscle groups like that's something
that's like a pretty basic thing to do
and it fits into kind of your knowledge
your current knowledge and ability zone
so
if you try and take on everything all at
once you're going to exceed your
knowledge ability zones and some things
and be within it and others so what i
would say is periodize it in such a way
that you can just kind of tackle a
couple things at a time
get a really good grasp of how
modulating those things works and then
once you've got that down or you feel
really comfortable with it then you move
on to a couple new ones right so you can
literally like train at rir2
for entire mesocycles you don't even
have to worry about it while you're
messing around with volume because
you're trying to figure out one variable
at a time that's okay is it ideal no but
it's an easier way than trying to say
like okay well this week i have to use
this exercise i'm trying to figure out
sfr but my sfr is different at different
rers and different rep ranges and i
don't know how many sets i'm supposed to
do or how many sets i'm supposed to get
to it's too much too confusing pick one
pick one or two things and modulate them
see where they go and then move on once
you've got a good grasp on them which is
essentially what mike said too
james very well put very very well put
next up we have to scroll nowhere
because this next one down triffers or
try froze
that's the new frozen movie
yes oh that's it would be frozen three
i've seen the fur when you and i both
painfully watched the first two frozen
movie several times yes uh we have uh
one of our best friends has a
three-year-old daughter and
she watches frozen iteratively
constantly and we had to watch it in
spanish too that was interesting
oh jesus christ and then like the frozen
soundtrack is on all the time
mm-hmm
she protects i didn't like the second
one
i loved the second one i liked it more
than the first the second one is like
dude you just gotta be you're the
fucking key to the whole universe man
you're the shit you got all the power
you feel me
i guess that's what i got out of it i
was i was on a lot of edibles when i saw
it
um i'm like just sitting there like word
up whatever she says
greetings from finland dear doctors do
you think it might be possible that the
only uh way to truly reach your maximum
muscular potential at least as a natty
lifter is to slowly blow it up to
obesity and then cut back down to
healthy ranges
i'm talking about something like 265 at
5 10 and then cutting back to 220.
i know at least mike did something
similar to this in his natty days i'm
asking because the only time i
considerably improve my weight
to waist ratio
weight to waist maybe shoulder base
ratio was uh
after i went up to about 25 body fat and
then back down to a healthy range again
despite already having had several years
of training behind me at the time
training with very similar protocols i
mean so it i i don't think that's the
case uh
it may be the case i i wouldn't guess
that first i think what gaining a lot of
weight does is it drives hypertrophy
directly through the nutrient pathways
you can accomplish something pretty much
similar by having mini drives and many
cuts and many drives and many cuts and
you don't have to get gigantic but the
amount of hypertrophic driving get out
of 50 pounds of weight increase is maybe
the same amount that you could have
gotten out of 30 pounds of weight
increase never getting fat but it would
have taken you three fucking years and
you could do that same in one year do
you pay the price health-wise yes
you know skin fold or you're fucking you
have loose skin all the time and water
bloating problems yeah terrible it's
terrible terrible i wouldn't do it and
the suffering it takes to gain that much
weight everything about it was awful i
just wouldn't fucking do it i've done it
before it's terrible one of the worst
decisions i've ever made in my life um i
don't think it makes you more muscular
than anything ever i think you get just
as muscular if you're staying reasonably
lean it's just going to take longer time
to do the reasonably lean so i think
what you saw was like an instant cash
checkout the cash
jesus christ cash checkout thing where
it was like oh now this is great um
where you know it would have accumulated
the same muscle over time it would have
just taken longer it's got together the
shooting analogy is kind of like you get
a million dollars now between 40 tax on
it uh so you get 600 thousand you're
like oh my god like 600 000 versus you
make 70 000 a year with zero tax for 10
years you make 700 000
but it takes fucking ten years and
you're kind of like god damn it like i
never have this amount of money in front
of me
yeah and this is a confounding factor
for a lot of people uh i would imagine
trifro is probably similar situation for
you
when people actually start trying to
mass for the first couple times not not
just like like oh i go to the gym and i
left where they're like okay i want to
actually get big and they start thinking
about nutrition they end up getting a
lot of those kind of beginner gains
because they're doing harder training
and they're actually thinking about like
calories and protein for the first times
so as mike said they get that immediate
like whammo gratification um but a lot
of that is just kind of beginner gains
unfortunately and so then they kind of
get locked into this mindset of like
well my gains just don't come very fast
anymore i feel like the only time i can
make gains is when i'm really eating a
lot well it's like well
you got all those gains because you were
effectively a beginner on the diet side
of things right you were just eating a
lot more calories and protein than you
had before so you're reaping those so
that can be a confounding factor um what
i would say trifro's so mike already
nailed it like you don't you definitely
don't have to eat to obesity and this
has been demonstrated very well that's
there is some threshold at which
increases in calories do not potentiate
further gains in muscle mass
uh and daily calories so there's that
that's a definitely a thing where you
can't just like indefinitely eat and
expect to gain more muscle at some point
there's a major trade-off in the amount
of body fat that you're accumulating if
you are gaining weight here's here's
kind of the dr james skeptical people's
eyebrow if you are gaining weight and
you are not making muscular gains the
problem is not the nutrition side of
things the problem is probably the
training side of things so at that point
i would go back and reevaluate your
training program you might be under
doing it in terms of volume which for
hypertrophy training i think is the case
more often than not so um
keep that in mind because i think like
if you are
gaining weight at a reasonable rate
but you don't think that that weight is
translating into muscle mass gained or
at least not as much as you think that
you should be doing the problem is less
likely that you're not eating enough and
the problem is more likely that your
training program is maybe not as good as
it could be and i know that's a tough
pill to swallow but trust me i've been
there i've coached many people who have
been in that same situation and that
tends to be the common denominator so
just keep that in the back of your mind
and also keep in the back of your mind
the first time you did it and if you
gained a whole bunch of weight probably
was like a factor of like noob games
which is fine
good timing dr mike is back
fuck sorry about that uh oh you're good
my computer started to die a lot sooner
than i thought it would i'm just all
right uh this looks like martinez
lizzie's here looking at his fucking
arms jesus christ is that that his arms
really don't look like that what the
fuck is that i don't know that's what i
was just thinking like is this are his
arms really that big i don't remember
the name no no you think that's smart
all right
all right next up
matthew denton
god damn it i gotta search
matthew
there he is
all right
matthew denton asks hey dr mike from the
pictures i've seen on instagram you have
a pretty good stomach vacuum do you have
any tips or tricks regarding how to go
about perfecting someone's stomach
vacuum and perhaps some commentary on
where training the vacuum infiniti wants
training plan no clue
i practice posing a few times a week in
my offseason i practice posing either
every other day or every day as i lead
up to contest
when i practice posing i practice the
vacuum when i have
plenty of body fat i can't do a vacuum
at all
when i get leaner the vacuum magically
appears so getting lean is the real way
to practice it and also just practice in
the context of posing and the best way
to practice it is to try to hold the
vacuum for as long as you can with every
pose it's tough but you get better and
better at it
i have no special insights tips or
tricks and a lot of times
whether or not you can hit a vacuum as i
think pretty genetic some people just
can't fucking do it this doesn't even
occur to them or they do it it looks
kind of not so great some people can hit
a vacuum like normally even pre like the
day of the show if i relax my stomach i
have a big gut just have a big fucking
gut but i can also pull a nasty vacuum
like it makes no fucking sense so
sometimes people who have really slim
waists can't pull a vacuum some people
with guts can pull the vacuum it's uh it
goes rubs the whole gamut i think
i have no tips whatsoever on how to do
the vacuum no fucking clue here but what
i can say is that i know this is going
to sound silly but it will make sense
hopefully to some of you guys with
bodybuilding specifically if you're
trying to compete in bodybuilding right
the fitness component is obvious it's
getting your muscles as big and as lean
as possible bodybuilding also has a
skills and tactics component which i
know sounds ridiculous at face value but
bear with me your skills are your
ability to execute your poses in the
most pleasing or aesthetic way based on
your own shapes and symmetries and
anthropometry and the tactics component
is your ability to effectively put that
into good posing routines and uh
possibly compete against other people
like in a pose down so the way that you
would approach this is the way that you
would approach skills and tactics in any
other sport right you would allocate a
specific number of like time or
repetitions um to actually practicing
the skills at certain points throughout
your competition cycle so just
so the question of like how do you train
stomach vacuum it's the same way you
train
passing a rugby ball it's just a
different context you allocate time to
doing it you allocate like milestones
and criteria for success in the training
and you model modulate your intensities
and volumes just like you with anything
else i know that sounds silly because
it's just posing but all those things
fit into your training plan if you are a
serious bodybuilder it doesn't mean that
you're necessarily training the vacuum
all the time throughout the year like
mike said he might only practice a
little bit more
uh when he's actually in his competition
cycle but if you're somebody who's
trying to improve on your skills and
bodybuilding which is your posing
routines whether they're the actual
routines or the actual individual
components themselves
there's no way around it you got to
practice it and the practice that you do
is the same that you would do for any
other sports skills or tactics
very very good there's actually a sport
at the end
david parker is our last contestant for
today james david parker
not to be confused with peter parker
oh yeah jared said the least the last
spider-man was like the greatest movie
he's ever seen oh i haven't seen the
most recent one uh no uh no way home or
far from home or some something like
that
all right
i don't remember what it was on the
question
uh
david parker said hi docs would love to
hear your thoughts on the three slash
seven method
to perform you load up with seventy
percent of one rem and do three reps
rest fifteen seconds four reps rest 15
seconds
continue ascending to seven reps
this is one set
so like you have like a several under
stimulative mini sets
within the
big set
yeah there are two preliminary studies
on this that i found
uh site sites the idea of the study
the three seven methods gained
popularity with jackson piazz being a
notable practitioner cool so we can
insult jackson our friend by yeah fuck
that guy
uh first question have you or would you
try it
uh
i haven't tried it
i
i like the next one
looks like a country cousin of the maya
wrap that was great to personally
confirm it does deliver a good burn
slash pump
my second question is how it stacks up
against my reps perhaps it would help or
at least make you laugh at me to use a
narrative
my rep mike performs 25 reps of bicep
curls and does them as twelve five five
three
his gangsta living cousin
three seven stan swaggers over and does
25 reps of bicep curls is three four
five six seven
as he rudely clanks the barbell down
into the squat rack and shouts three
seven for life baby
david you've done yourself this is great
let's assume they both rested about the
same amount of time in between each mini
set are we using the same load
the identical in all relevant ways
generics training meyer ups definitely
wins on the time efficiency only three
rest breaks instead of four for
perceived effort mike and stan both
reported feeling an intense burn during
the last 13 reps
for mike and six slash seven for stan
would it be wrong to speculate that the
total metabolites accumulated or similar
from i can stand yes it would be wrong i
don't get to why
um
what about the overall fiber recruitment
between the two would love to hear your
clarifying thoughts to go easy on me
obviously whether or not we train with
my rhapsody seven is not break or break
but it could be fun interesting to
compare contrast of course this is a
very good question
to put the um
put the scope on it so i would say there
is one way in which you describe this
method to me stands out as not great
if we look at the mini sets in isolation
let's take a look at the meyer upset
it's 12 5 5 3.
what fraction of those sets
got you a very close proximity to
failure all of them
now if we look at the
three seven method
was the set of three close to failure no
there's no way if you can do seven sets
forty five seconds later or seven reps
456 later or whatever after a bunch of
sets there's no way three was close to
failure four was nowhere close to
failure five may be pretty close to
failure but with only 15 seconds rest
and you're actually allowed to get six
reps then it wasn't that close to
failure because you wouldn't be able to
do that how close was six to failure
pretty close but not so close because
with only 15 seconds
left you were able to do seven reps
anything in which you can do more reps
in the later set yes
because
i by definition either rested a long
time which is logically obviated here
and or it is not very close to failure
so i would say that
only the seventh
mini set the less sorry the seven rep
mini step the last one of these is for
sure close to failure maybe the last two
whereas every single mini set in the my
reps is close to failure that leads me
to believe that my reps per unit of
volume are more stimulative
yeah so even if you just look at the 70
percent of 1rm as a starting point uh
you know sometimes these numbers escape
me but to me that's somewhere in the
range of like 10 to 15 reps for most
people so i mean doing three reps let's
just say conservatively at like that
somebody's because they could do 10 i
mean homie that's seven away from
failure that's not even close right and
it's just not a good starting point so
the question is like could you have
started
doing something more intense either
using more weight or a closer
uh closer being closer to failure and
the answer is almost certainly yes so
this is kind of an instance of like can
you do it yes to me it just seems like
you're loading up a bunch of pre-emptive
kind of junk volume sets that aren't
really doing much for you outside of
just limiting what you could have done
if you would have just started going a
little bit harder um also even kind of
in your description here where it's like
feeling an intense burn during the last
13 reps 533 for mike six and seven for
stan i mean even in that example it's
like well the five three three are three
effective sets ultimately versus the six
and seven effect uh those are two
effective sets if we're doing mile reps
where if you're not really feeling the
burn enough
then you're not really
taking advantage of the intensification
technique so to me this one seems yeah
kind of like as you very fun uh
hilariously described as the uh country
cousin of my reps i would personally not
do it this way uh just because it seems
like it front loads a lot of unnecessary
volume junk following yeah it's just
jump flying that's i guess the ult i'm
trying to dance around the issue but
it's jump rolling
um whereas if you just get right into
the mix
all those sets are stimulative
i got one more critique while we're on
the subject
the very specific prescriptive
combination
of percent 1rm and exact repetitions and
exact finishing points
leave this
probably inappropriate for
not most but many people that don't fall
right in the
distribution which this is targeting as
far as fatigue dynamics so for example
some people 70 percent of their 1rm
is
this happens is a five rep max
like if for these people they wouldn't
be able to do this at all they would get
three reps they would rest 15 seconds
get one rep rest 50 seconds get zero and
they'd be done
other people their 70 1rm
is their 20 rep max which means this
entire protocol would be submaxible for
them and they would finish the last
seventh rep and put it down and be like
am i growing yet
and
that was tough
that was heavy
got away from me like a big old fish
that's all they're all direct writing
quotes by the way so um
[Music]
you know i uh james and i are not fans
of
of like sort of holistically
prescriptive programs like if someone
says do y z exactly
our first question is how does that
account for individual differences in
auto regulation um the cool thing about
maya wraps it's like you know do like 15
to 25 reps in your first set yeah sweet
that's a big range no problem and then
it's like you know just do sets with
five to ten seconds ish of rest for like
three to eight reps percent
go i mean that accommodates almost
everyone and no matter where you start
or where you fit in you'll be able to do
what the purpose of my reps is which is
to
reach close to failure multiple times in
the same large set
if that's the purpose of this protocol
it does not accomplish that for lots and
lots of people
which is funny just this is like a
totally not not
this is just a semantical argument but
like the mile reps is an intensification
technique right whereas like this
version of it actually like
de-emphasizes the intensity of what
you're doing right
so like if you're doing mile reps the
point is to make it harder more intense
than than normal training so if you're
not riding like that pain train while
you're doing this the question would
then be like why am i doing this at all
why don't i just do regular sets at this
point instead of like janky milo reps
yeah part of this is a warm-up for sure
was i was thinking the same thing like
yeah the first sets like if you didn't
warm up then yeah that first set's great
that's it that's all we got for today
folks well i feel embarrassed uh with my
technical issues today it actually was
just more simple than i realized so i'm
an idiot but we already knew that dr
mike any housekeeping stuff
no housekeeping yet but fun things are
on the horizon i will say
we have released a new product on rp it
is the
custom training template program builder
and there's links all over our youtube
so just go into one of our youtube
videos and probably the one of the top
links is going to be that tool i do have
a long video where i describe how the
fuck that all worked and
that custom program builder thing is
basically you choose all the muscle
groups you want on your plan you choose
if you want regular growth or
specialization and then it the plan you
get in email is exactly all that but
pre-structured and whole nestle cycle
auto regulation built in so you just
basically pick all the muscles you want
to train how much you want to train them
and then you get a plan that is
basically good for 12 to 18 weeks of
hypertrophy training for under 100
pretty fucking sweet so if you like all
the shit we do if you like all the shit
we say but when it comes time to execute
you're like fuck i had to make my own
program what about rar what about
soreness what about pumps this is all
built in taken care of you can
understand what you're doing and at the
same time be de-burdened of having to do
it yourself so
and then side benefit which might not be
like apparent to everyone um if there
are certain muscle groups that you just
could not give a fuck about like
forearms calves traps you can just not
include them and add up more volume on
the things that you want to train i
think that's the best part about these
new templates if you just don't want to
train calves you don't have to get the
male physique templates and ignore the
catholic what do i do for calves right
you literally get to take calves out
and then it's calculated into actually
adding more training into the other
stuff which that calf training would
have accommodated would have taken up so
i think that's probably a really cool
part so for those of you who have kind
of like a set
style that you like to train like you
train most muscle groups but maybe you
don't train posterior adults or traps
specifically and you don't want that in
your training program well guess what
now you can pick exactly what you want
and reuse it many times over so pretty
cool
it's easy
i'm an old motherfucker
jackson actually endorsed the product he
loves it can you stop yelling at me
please
no i'm not yelling that's how i talk
so many great quotes
all right folks we're going to wrap this
one up it's been a while it's good to be
back we love your questions thanks for
hanging out with us and we will see you
next time