[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
palms are sweaty knees weak arms are
heavy there's vomit on his sweater
already mom spaghetti I'm not sure why I
said that but I said it or a sh price
once said innards Leonard skinnard why
did I say that not to [ __ ] up the E and
flow of set track Dr pack here we're
back with another video and today we're
going to talk about a few things that
many of you may be overthinking while
you're in the gym starting exercise
technique is not something you should be
losing your mind over again if you are a
bodybuilder especially a professional
bodybuilder an absolute muscle geek who
loves looking at exercise technique and
you have much more fun by adjusting
every sort of exercise and watching
videos and attending courses all for it
nothing wrong with that absolutely
nothing wrong with that but for you
other person who doesn't care about that
stuff just make sure that your gym
etiquette is on point that you're not
YOLO freaking it with your Technique yes
this a scientific term where you're
using a ton of external momentum and
every time you go to the gym you do
something insanely different I've talked
about standardization on another video
but yeah the idea that you need to have
this sort of a ball textbook technique
every time and slight deviations are
going to lead to you not making gains is
simply BS just keep things relatively
strict obviously watch a few videos on
how to perform exercises those will
cover you make any adjustments that you
need to make based on you know your own
anthropometric
characteristics and that's pretty much
it now obviously you can always optimize
and make slight adjustments for things
to feel better but don't overthink it
like the most basic technique guidelines
are going to tick most if not all of
your boxes as far as making really solid
gains
grow second thing that you may be
overthinking is how long you should rest
between each set now obviously the very
simple guideline of hey rest until
you're ready to get to the next set
doesn't seem to uh satisfy everybody
because some people are like how will I
know if I'm arrested enough I am going
to argue that even if on paper we were
to put some magical device inside
you with your consent and it was to say
that you're not 100% ready when you're
going for your set and you're 95% ready
as as long as you're able to you know be
within the rep range that you've set for
yourself get close to failure and
performance is not dropping massively
from set to set you're definitely
covered you don't need to think about uh
whether you rested for an extra 20
seconds or 30 seconds keep in mind that
in the literature and we are currently
performing a meta analysis on rest
periods to see what's really the deal
even with very short rest periods
although one could argue that you could
be looking at less hypertrophy as long
as you are performing a few extra sets
to make up for you know volume that you
may have lost by resting less it's
likely that you're more than fine and
again in our context you're definitely
fine like there's no doubt about it
obviously if again you're the one crazy
person who goes to the gym and uh rests
for 3 seconds between each set and ends
up doing a set of 10 a set of one a set
of half and a set of zero reps obviously
yeah I'm not talking about that one
person but even if if you were to rest
only for like 30 to 60 seconds for every
exercise you may if you're looking at
absolutely maximizing gains you may need
to perform a few more sets to make up
for a volume lost but at the end of the
day you will make amazing gains and
you're fine rest for as long as you need
don't take the piss which is a UK
expression for do not be an absolute
a-hole with how you treat your rest and
rest for 25 minutes then you not do that
on the other side of the extreme where
you rest for 5 seconds but even if you
do it's not really a big
deal third on the list we have following
your program to a team now if you're
working with a coach obviously respect
your coach and do whatever you've agreed
to do but at the same time if you're not
working with a coach and you're just
following a program the idea that if you
do an extra exercise or you slightly
change the exercise on the program to
something else or instead of three sets
you do two sets or you do four sets or
on one day you add some sets or you do
the bit bit of extra Cal work at the end
really not a big deal again do not miss
the forest for the tiny trees that are
on the floor they're not real trees
somebody has left some garbage over
there and you can't really see what it
is and you're like is that a tree and
then you start arguing with your
significant other and he or she is like
no that's not a tree this is some
garbage and you're there for 3 hours and
then you end up ruining your
relationship because of that minute
argument don't be that person the idea
that if you go off your program keep in
mind that your program was not created
by you know scientists that studied you
over years and found the optimal program
that must be followed to an absolute te
obviously if you have some structure and
you want to follow a certain program
that you've seen online and you've seen
people say hey this program program
worked really well for me it's in your
best interest to try and replicate that
as closely as possible but at the end of
the day if you're taking basic boxes
like intensity of effort volume and
obviously consistency adding or
subtracting things is not going to make
a huge difference
even if you were to completely change
the program again as long as you're
taking those boxes you're fine but then
you would obviously not be following
that program and again if you're
somebody who doesn't know much about
programming you know you may not want to
go down that road because you may feel
like your program is not solid enough
because it's a different program but
overall do not lose your mind or
overthink whether it's okay to make some
subtle changes to a program that you're
following you may also be overthinking
progression now it's important to if
you're trying to get absolutely jacked
out of your mind and obviously strong to
make sure that things are progressing if
you're still doing the same weight on
the lat cool down as you were doing a
few years ago it's likely that you're
very far away from failure and you're
not pushing yourself hard because you've
now adapted to that weight and you know
things are not looking that great as far
as gains go but there's no need to
overthink progression just do your best
if you're somebody who again is
interested in hypertrophy and is
interested in getting jacked do your
best every time you go to the gym unless
obviously you have a coach or a program
that has some pre-build progression in
but even in those cases just do your
best every time to either add a bit of
weight or add an extra rep here and
there on whatever lift you're performing
there's no need to overly lose your mind
about whether you need some specific
periodization scheme or you need to be
adding reps on one week and then wait on
the other week or if if it's better to
wait two weeks before you add uh the
extra rep and if it's better to add that
extra rep on the first set or the second
set just make sure that over time
overall you can take a step back look at
how you were performing 3 months ago
compare that to now and be like okay
I've pretty much added weight and or
reps on most if not all
things last thing that you are probably
overthinking and that's exercise
selection it is not that deep honestly
if again to to give you a silly example
if you were to go to any gym and select
two to three exercises per body parts
based on the machines that the gym has
assuming you don't go to the worst gym
in the world that has a squat rack and
three dumbbells but if you were to go to
any commercial gym in the UK or the
United States any known chain pick three
exercises two to three machines for each
body part those for the the rest of your
life you'd probably make amazing gains
if you're somebody who is in their you
know first second third fourth fifth
year of your training losing your mind
over whether the barell bench press and
the Dumbo fly are your best options if
those exercises feel good and you're
progressing well on them totally fine
again nothing wrong with playing around
with exercises and learning new
exercises totally fine I'm not saying
just Barber lifts and and dumbbells and
the basics are King but do not lose your
mind over it don't overthink exercise
selection it's not that deep and as far
as direct literature goes it's not that
we have a whole lot for me or for
anybody to tell you hey these 20
exercises are going to lead to
substantially more muscle growth than
other exercises we do have some evidence
on things like seated versus standing
Cal phrases where standing Cal phrases
are superior to the seated Cal phrase
and if you're trying to Target the long
head of the tricep doing some overhead
tricep work is a good idea and that's
why I said picking two to three
exercises per body part even if you were
to randomly pick them it's likely that
You' pick those boxes anyways but if you
watch any basic YouTube video on
exercise selection from a relatively
reputable Source or at least a video
that has a lot of views it's very
unlikely that you're going to leave
games on the table because you selected
the wrong exercises sure there's the one
person out there who's still doing just
seated Cal raises and they are possibly
missing out on Cal Gaines but if your
calvs are not growing whatsoever you've
also probably looked into alternative
exercises and have probably tried the
one other exercise extreme examples
aside nothing to lose your mind
over and that brings me to the end of
the video it is yet another ADHD
Extravaganza here with your favorite
doctor not a physician real doctor Dr
pack with his own personal sign don't
forget to like subscribe hit the
notification icon hit the door on your
way out uh after you leave your office
or your room where you are watching this
video and you are now absolutely fuming
with the BS that people have been
fitting you about all the things that I
told you to not overthink and I'll see
you in the third camera pretending I
have one next video
peace