[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
on Bart Kwan I am gonna be 36 this year
I don't know how I would describe what I
do but I guess I'm a professional clown
that loves fitness is how I would
describe myself I have two main
businesses or companies that I'm a part
of one is Barbara Brigade which is a
fitness apparel and gym brand and the
other side of things it's just kidding
news
[Music]
I was probably every teachers worst
nightmare I was like just not that I was
dumb
it could have been public school maybe
it wasn't for me cuz I just need a lot
of stimulation but I got kicked out of
my first school when I was in first
grade and then again in third grade and
then I almost got kicked out in sixth
grade and I got kicked out three high
schools so I think just the academic
environment wasn't really for me and so
it was easy for me to find myself in
trouble even though I'm not really like
a troublesome or I don't really look for
trouble
you know as you're growing up especially
in junior high and when you go into high
school you're looking for a place of
belonging and then so you kind of just
go where do I fit in and then so I think
I found like the misfits were like you
just smoke cigarettes and you guys hang
out and then everyone's coming from a
broken home and then that kind of became
the place that I felt like I belong the
most I think like in those groups like
the theme that really brings everyone
together is if you're down so if
everyone is down to go steal a car or
are we down to go do this and do this
and if all it really takes is the
people's willingness to do something and
that was repond
so it was easy to have like fine like
fit into a group like that
so I've robbed houses when I was like in
high school and even though I felt bad
the whole time especially going
someone's house and you see pictures of
their family and you're like but
then there's also that unch anoles
creativity part where you're trying to
figure out different ways to get into a
house you know unch anoles creativity
can either it's like one of the most
dangerous things in the world you could
lead to extreme criminal activities if
you don't have strong enough conscience
to like you know hammer you down I never
felt anything that I was doing was right
or productive and I'm like this whole
time like I'm just thinking to myself
and my parents raised me better like why
the am I doing these things but
then there's another side of me where it
was finally I felt like I got to be free
and I get to be able to do what I want I
never felt I got the support that I
from my parents so I felt like I was
just doing things on my own but for once
in this group if I let's say I beat up
someone and I came back and I told
everyone everyone's cheering for me so
even though whatever you did you felt
horrible about the fact that there's
people that are supporting you and it
made it made it feel good so I I got
sent to this military school to kind of
clean my act up but the bad part about
that is because a lot of kids do get
delinquent kids do get sent there I
immediately found like the other like
drug-dealing people then you find other
games and then people start clicking up
again and then I ended up getting kicked
out in six months for dealing drugs
there
so senior year I was like okay I'm gonna
have one year of high school left if I
don't do something drastic I think I'm
just gonna end up falling the same path
and I see some of my other buddies who
like who like some of the older homies
that they got out of jail and they
didn't really like drastically change
their life and there's kind of stuck in
the same bubble doing the same thing so
I ended up joining the Marine Corps and
what was really cool about it is the
boot camp it's like three and a half
months long but when you come out
because you've done so much
incrementally and they build you up that
you feel like you could do anything
so like the minute I came out on my
yeah I'm gonna get my life in order and
I'm gonna be a 4.0 student I'm gonna
 kill it and so I went straight
to Community College I signed up for
classes so by the time like the last
year right before I transferred I had a
4.0 and I was like just like so proud of
myself I was trying to go the pre-med
route like I was trying to like get back
on the tracks of being a good Asian boy
so that that was what I was trying to do
but during the summer of transfer like
there's actually no classes and that's
when YouTube first came around and then
me and my buddy Joe he would send me
these funny videos of himself and then I
would make stupid videos and I'll send
it to him
and then pretty soon we would start
being like a really small fanbase like
it'd be like like 800 views what the
800 Z and then so by the time I got into
UCLA I think I started to develop like
this new passion my last two years all
of my electives were just like film and
theater classes for a year straight our
plan was we'll meet from 7 p.m. to 11
p.m. and will write Monday through
Friday and on the Saturdays and Sundays
we'll film all the skits that we wrote
and we did that for a year even if we
had a fever or ndon let anything stop us
and then we got the company to the point
where we could pay myself a thousand a
month pay him a thousand a month and
then have some money for like production
costs and that's when we put both of our
jobs and then we started creating other
channels to kind of see if we can like
diversify our income and we end up with
this channel called just kidding news
and that was just based on all of us
when we went to go eat we would just
talk in the parking lot four hours after
and I think with within two years it
became a seven-figure company which was
 crazy for us because we were
like from just like five six years ago
you know always having negative 18:8 of
300 to like a seven-figure company it
was almost mind-blowing so the training
came in in high school when I moved out
here they are all my friends older
brothers they just came back from jail
and in jail like the activity of choice
is lifting weights and that's all we did
so we were just hanging out in a garage
and would just smoke cigarettes and lift
weights and that kind of became like the
thing and so I started lifting when I
was 15 my my love for lifting went from
just being an activity in a garage and
went to like how can I learn more about
this
so barbell brigade is actually it's kind
of its kind of like this crazy tangent
that I took in the side of my life so
okay I'll make people follow me for some
workouts let's create a brand first and
then so we named the gym after the brand
barber gate and we post it on the
website
hey we want to open up in Monterey Park
and if we get a hundred members well
open and we got 100 members like two
weeks and what sucks though was within
three months our membership went from
100 went down to like 30 so we lost a
bunch of members and it was because
everyone that signed up was a fan so
they're not really into lifting they're
just fans of like maybe in a clown and
this always want to be in the presence
of me being the clown but when I opened
this gym it's good I want to attract
like-minded people but what was cool was
the community that we built was so
strong people started inviting their
friends so at that point I actually
thought we were gonna have to close the
business down but then with within 8
months we actually outgrew the place and
then we moved to the current downtown
location and then so now we're at like
400 members which is pretty cool
I think if I were to give myself advice
and if I really could it would be if you
realize you're really passionate about
something I think it's in your best
favor to pursue it regardless if anyone
supports you and if even if it feels
like you have to do it on your own
because once you become successful in it
other people will finally understand if
you find that burning passion for
something don't let it go and really try
to nurture it don't try to be the person
that achieves that achieves the goal be
the person that achieves goals for me
like even if I stop doing the things I
did now I would just pick up new
activities and I think that's how I am
like you know like I think the way my
brain works I constantly need to be
stimulated and that's what brings me
happiness
success comes from consistent effort and
I think consistent effort comes from
things that are simple and that it is in
your nature to do so I think a lot of
times people they see success and they
attach what someone else is doing and
they go I need to do that but you might
not be successful doing that because
it's not in your nature to do that I
think it's easier for you to find what
works naturally for you and then find
the simplest ways to do it and then you
can repeat that process and then with
consistency I think um success and
you'll end up being successful in your
own way and I think that has one more
longevity
[Music]