Mr Olympia Dorian Yates used to do just
four sets for his chest per week most
science-based coaches still recommend 10
to 20 sets per muscle per week for
maximum gains but now a lot of people
are saying 52 sets is best for muscle
growth so are you missing out on gains
if you do less well this idea comes from
this new study that did find a trend
toward more muscle growth with 52 sets
than with 22 sets however they only did
that much volume for their quads and
they didn't start out that high they
started at 22 sets and gradually
increased to 52 over a 12E period and
super high volume didn't work for
everyone some subjects responded really
well others not so much so don't triple
your volume right away and don't do 52
sets for every body part but here's how
you can use this if you've been training
hard for a while pick one stubborn body
part and run a high volume experiment on
yourself if you currently do 10 sets per
week for your biceps add five sets each
week until you get to 30 sets if that
feels manageable run with that volume
for 8 weeks measure your biceps before
and after if they grow well high volume
training might be a good strategy for
you