UFC president Dana White had an unreal
transformation as health markers just
through the roof and I think he lost
something like a total of maybe 35 lbs
on the scale but because he started
taking weight training very seriously
during that time he must have gained
anywhere from 5 to 15 lbs of muscle I
mean 15's a bit extreme but I'm willing
to go 5 to 10 for sure and that means he
actually lost maybe 45 lbs of fat while
gaining muscle he didn't go from gez
Dana's really enjoying his wealth kind
of look is this something wine can cure
Jesus he could have gone from that with
no resistance training to like oh Dana
White lost weight but he went from that
to like yo what the Dana is
Superman when the hell is he getting in
the Octagon you feel me that's a big
deal some people feel weaker after a
diet cuz they are they lost a bunch of
muscle you gain muscle or maintain it
through a diet you feel stronger after a
diet