here's your maintenance calories what it
takes to maintain your body weight if
you eat at a surplus High fats low fats
doesn't matter you usually gain weight
if you eat at maintenance you could be
almost all your diet is from fats and
people are like oh my God that guy's
gonna blow up and get insane eating
fucking bacon with peanut butter on it
if you just eat a maintenance you'll
probably gain pretty close to no fat or
no fat at all if you are below
maintenance and you are hypo caloric you
can again slather peanut butter on bacon
and jam it in and you will lose fat in
most cases that entire time because
calorie balance is King and we don't
have to worry about which macronutrients
larger than we eat with a little bit of
an exception we probably want to have a
decent amount of protein to spare some
muscle loss and a good amount of carbs
is great to fuel your brain so you can
think through the day and fuel you for
activity and for recovery from training