hey guys so we made it back from the
Arnold Classic we're gonna put together
a three part video series for you guys
with some of our training footage and
then some of the footage from the Arnold
Classic itself and just some sort of
lifestyle stuff that we had that we
filmed when we're out with friends and
stuff like that so I guess the first
thing that we did or the first thing
that happened on our trip was that we
got stuck in Philadelphia because of a
snowstorm so we ran into an ifbb pro in
santana Anderson in the halifax airport
and we were both sort of stuck in the
same situation so we rented a car and
then drove for 10 hours overnight we
finally got in columbus on friday at
five thirty in the morning i had a good
sleep at night yeah Robin they set up a
little bed in the back seat in santana
and i took turns driving for 10 hours
and then we just got back yesterday and
today we realized that the flight
actually did go out that night and so we
pretty much drove all that time for
nothing so they didn't tell us that the
seats were there they had 60 seats on
Stan bones but it's called in yeah
Santana just let us know but like he
didn't find out until after after like
running into one of the passengers on
our flight so yeah that's I kind of wish
he didn't tell us because
anyway these are my deadlifts and I was
doing to 34 doubles so that's my eighty
percent I believe so my max is around
I'm saying it's like around 12 to nine
ish and yeah they were pretty soon i
think i was asking jeff what they will
fight there because they always feel so
slow off the ground especially with how
wide my stance is asimo it's like the
slowness effect off the ground
impropriety for something um yeah
overall they looked really good this was
before I started like feeling extremely
overreached I kind of I probably push
myself a little harder than I should
have this error code but it was whether
I was really motivated by all the cool
people this was something really cool
about this gym which is the beyond
limits gym in columbus by the way it was
definitely one of the coolest gyms I've
ever trained in and you can tell that
the owners are really big into natural
bodybuilding and all of these posters
that you see on the wall are just
autographed photos of the best natural
body builders right now and there were
people like Lane Brian Whittaker and
Doug Miller got put on the wall this
weekend actually so it was really
inspiring to see all those dudes up
there while you trained so this was on
Friday actually and so I was feeling
inspired by the people who had competed
at the arnold pro rata of course I was
supposed to do that mean originally in
my back was starting to give me some
trouble so I had to pull out how perfect
my squat sense so I got to the gym and I
realized I didn't have my belt and I
didn't have my squash shoes so all i
really had was my chucks and my knee
sleeves so i didn't go super heavy but i
ended up doing i think six sets of two
with between you three eighty five and
405 which was my top set this is my
fifth set with 230
or a double still looked and felt pretty
good and so I think that this was
actually my last set here I believe this
is with 385 and I'm squatting a high bar
here
and yeah after a 10-hour drive overnight
I wouldn't say I was feeling with best
in the world but just because of the
atmosphere in that gym because of the
inspiration that I was able to draw from
the powerlifting meet I felt great and
so then after squatting I decided to
move on to bench and again I typically
would bench using a belt and with my
squash shoes because i feel so i can get
a tighter set up and a little more leg
Drive with those two things like popping
up but on this day I didn't have those
so I just suffice for my little of
chucks and so that first set was a
double or maybe a triple with 315 then I
moved up to 3 35 for a single and then
345 for a good cause single not moved
pretty quickly I was feeling really good
so I decided to go for my old PR of 365
and
it seems like my it felt at least like
my pot my butt popped up off the bench
you can see my hips gonna rise up there
Robin claims that I did not did stay
down like I love her I love for light
under the but like if I can see lighten
and then this is 370 so if it counts
that with me in all time PR and so
that's it for part one guys thanks for
watching and stay tuned for pirates to
where we will show some footage from my
work out with me and McCarthy of lifting
for life and no [ __ ] bodybuilding
and then part 3 where we'll have some
more workout stuff and some footage from
the actual Arnold itself so thanks for
watching guys don't forget to like the
video and subscribe if you haven't
already